The market continues to make new highs.
Higher productivity supports higher
valuations. The market clearly is
pricing in a decent amount of
expectation for forward growth. Let's
not just focus on the expectations, but
also about the market actually. You need
to put your money somewhere.
And the reality is the US is the only
place where you can actually put scale.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Annmarie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning from our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming to
Tuesday, heading towards a government
shutdown. The meeting with congressional
leaders failing to deliver a
breakthrough as the BLS is confirming
this week's jobs report may well be
delayed. The equity market is looking to
close out Q3 with another quarterly
gain. Q4 is coming right up.
>> lot of it's going to depend on the
earnings. I just want to note though
that the distance to Washington DC and
markets is pretty shocking right now. In
markets, there is this feeling that Q4
will bring more earnings, more gains, a
sense of euphoria around AI spreading
out to the rest of the uh a rest of
universe with Fed rate cuts on tap. In
Washington DC, can't get anything done
and they're facing off with constituents
that feel very differently because it's
only a small cohort of the overall uh
consumer base that really is feeling
such euphoria that's being reflected in
earnings.
>> Wall Street united, DC divided. These
are the statements from Senator Schumer.
It's in the president's hands. The Vice
President JD Vance, Democrats won't do
the right thing. The blame game
continues.
>> And I was there yesterday when they came
out to the microphones to brief the
press to both basically throw stones at
the other side about why they are stuck
right now in this paralysis. And the
Vice President said it directly, I think
we're heading to a shutdown. It's not a
matter of if, it's how long this
shutdown is going to last. Cuz guess
what? The house is not in session. So
the only way we can avoid a shutdown
right now is if Senate Democrats decide
to vote for that clean CR that Senate
Majority Leader John Thune could put on
the floor. That's not going to happen.
Senate Majority Leader John Thune said
yesterday these discussions were lively,
they were spirited, but they resulted in
no outcome, no solution. It is not if,
it's for how long we're going to be shut
down.
>> The market cares about one thing. Will
we or will we not get a jobs report on
Friday? So this is what the BLS has got
to say. If the government shuts down,
the BLS will suspend all operations and
cease all active data collection
activity. So Wall Street might be flying
kind of. Kind of because it's going to
be ADP week. This is make ADP great
again week, which is what we've seen for
a number of months now in terms of its
importance how people trade it. What's
interesting to me is yes, the nonfarm
payrolls report, but then it's CPI next
week, and then it's the fact that come
the Fed's meeting at the end of this
month, you might not have any new data.
And they might have to make a decision
at a time where there is an increasing
consensus around cutting rates by
another 25 basis points. That to me
potentially is more interesting.
>> time where the hawks are starting to
make a little bit more noise. What a 24
hours Hammack, Bullard,
making their points and the daylight
between them and the Governor Marion to
this world could not be wider right now.
And it's uh an honest and important
economic debate. And it's a debate that
can be had. What I keep telling what I
keep hearing from all of the people who
come on our show is right now they're
betting on equity market gains. Do they
think it could get excessive? Maybe. Do
they think that we need rate cuts?
Probably not. Are they going to ride it?
Absolutely, because they are judged by
how much money they make and they want
to be on this train. Matt Cantner, HSBC,
not getting off that train anytime soon.
Equity futures on the S&P negative here
by almost 2/10 of 1% as we close out
September and Q3. Coming up this hour,
Jay Pelosky of TPW Advisory as we close
out the third quarter. Terry Haines of
Pan G A Policy on the growing risk of a
government shutdown. And the former
White House trade advisor Kellyanne Shaw
as President Trump adds a fresh round of
tariffs. We begin this hour with stocks
heading towards a fifth straight month
of gains. Jay Pelosky of TPW Advisory
writing the latest US economic data does
not suggest an economy in need of
multiple rate cuts. We see reflation,
not recession. Jay joins us now for
more. Jay, is that the view into year
end and beyond?
Yes, indeed John, it is because not only
are we going to have reflation in the
US. I mean, what else can you have with
6 to 7% budget deficits and a Fed
cutting into 3% growth, but you also
have China, the other major global
economy uh that is reflating, right?
Focused on fighting deflation and
stimulating their economy. So in our
view, it's very simple. You have the US
uh
uh stimulating, you have China
stimulating, and therefore it's
reflation, not recession. Jay, give us
an idea of some numbers. Just how hard
are policy makers about to run this
thing? Talk to me about growth, the
inflation numbers. What do things look
like in your mind?
Well, in the US I think you have to
remember that uh with no uh growth in
the labor force,
uh growth is going to be slow in terms
of numbers, right? So we're seeing that
already in the jobs report, right? It
takes 40,000, 50,000 jobs to keep the
unemployment rate around 4.3%. A year
ago, 2 years ago it was 200,000 jobs. So
you have to put that into context.
That's a key contextual point that we
make to our clients and others as we
talk about the economy. So US grows at
2%, inflation is going to run hot,
that's clear. Uh so let's call it 5%.
And this is a point, John, I remember
talking with you about this back in the
COVID days. So that means nominal growth
in the US is going to run somewhere
north of 5%. So you're going to have
earnings growth, right? Remember the key
is that sales, revenues, and earnings
are denominated in nominal dollars. So
if you have 5 to 6% nominal growth,
you're going to have 5 to 7% kind of
natural uh earnings growth, then you
squeeze out a little bit more in the
margins, buy back some more stock, and
you have single-digit earnings growth in
the US, and that's sufficient to keep
the US uh stock market in decent shape.
And that is the key to us anyway,
because we're focused on the non-US
markets. Again, as you know quite well,
that's been our position for well over a
year now. So the key is that the best
time for non-US to outperform is if the
US is doing okay. And so we see better
growth opportunities coming in Europe.
We see better growth opportunities in
Asia. China is going to grow at its
normal 5% rate, but again, the important
thing is earnings. And here, as China
defeats deflation, earnings growth is
going to pick up. That means multiples
will pick up. That means stock prices
will pick up. And that means you're
going to do better in China than you
would in the US or other markets. So we
remain very keen on China, very keen on
emerging market equities, very keen on
commodities as well. I feel like the
world isn't necessarily divided into
regions, it's divided into sectors. How
much are you focusing the international
investments on tech that is ex-US versus
the rest of the universe that's been
left behind for the most part?
Yeah, great great point, Lisa. And and
you know, I might disagree somewhat, but
uh point taken. And look, again, China
tech has been dominating
dominating US tech in terms of equity
performance for the last 2 years. Again,
we've talked about it on this show many
times. KWEB is up 50% this year to date
um and uh versus the Qs that are up
what, 10, 12%? So uh tech in uh China is
a key position for us. Energy is a key
position for us. We think that's the
biggest opportunity right now. It's the
one that Wall Street is going to get
completely wrong. So we really like
energy. We've been adding there. Uh we
like financials uh outside the US again,
an old favorite. European banks continue
to outperform the US as they have for
the last several years. You know, people
are finally starting to wake up that the
non-US
markets offer significant outperform
potential. That's been the case of a
secular leadership change away from US
equities to the rest of the world led by
emerging markets, which are the big
beneficiaries of a Fed cutting in a weak
dollar. That allows central banks in EM
to cut rates, support their growth
without worrying about their currencies.
And lo and behold, what have we seen
this year? Bank of America points out
over 100 rate cuts in emerging markets.
Jay, there's also this political
overlay. At what point is it extra risky
to invest in a place like China at a
time where there could be some
safeguards or walls put up to
international investors? Something that
we've seen before, something that we've
seen even from the US in terms of
certain restrictions as the relationship
is increasingly fraught.
Yeah, that's that's a key point for us,
Lisa, but we flip the script there and
we focus on the opportunity that we see
coming up in China. And we see that kind
of risk much more in the United States
under a Trump administration, right? The
policy
uh erratic nature of policy making is
not in China, it's in the United States.
And that's why the dollar is weakening
as people start to protect themselves
first via hedging, and then we believe
over time just letting their US
positions go back to a normal weighting.
Right now, the world is overweight the
US. But here's the point about China. We
think the last couple weeks uh
splinternet, where the China and US tech
stacks completely divide, has finally
materialized. This is something we've
been writing about for years. In the
last 2 weeks, China has said their
companies cannot use Nvidia chips.
You've had Huawei come out and publicly
state how they're going to compete with
Nvidia, which is very unusual for China
tech. Usually they don't talk about that
stuff. And then last week you had
Alibaba come out and say they're going
to join the hyperscalers and spend 50
billion on compute. And so to us what's
really significant here is that before
any summit, right? Trump and Xi are
going to meet at some point in Q1. Not
talking about South Korea at the end of
the month. Q1's summit meeting in China.
And we think the Chinese have sent a
shot across the bow that the leverage
the US thinks it had with Nvidia chips
no longer holds and that China does have
leverage over the US via the rare
earths. And so we're looking for the
exact opposite. We're looking for
rapprochement amongst China and the US
that will signal that China is once
again investable. And so we would not be
surprised at all and and the TikTok deal
is an early indication of this. We would
not be surprised at all that in Q1 and
Q2 next year the signal is sent that for
US institutions, who I agree with you,
are not exposed to Chinese equity in any
way relative to the benchmark weight,
are are given the signal that it now is
okay to buy China again. And that's
going to set off the next leg of you
know Chinese outperformance versus the
US. Jay, domestically we're about to
have a government shutdown.
Does this matter at all to financial
markets?
Nope.
Even though we might not get the jobs
report on Friday?
No, not really. Again, I think people
are
understanding that the job market is in
flux due to the labor numbers and
therefore the focus is going to shift
right away to earnings. That might be
convenient for the market, right? We're
going to talk about earnings for the
next couple weeks. They're going to be
okay, etc. I do think if we still have a
shutdown
by the end of the month it could impact
the Fed meeting and that might be you
know a reason for people to pull back a
little bit here. But in essence again
Emery you and I have talked about this.
You know our view has been
basically for the last eight months to
pay zero attention to what this
administration says.
We focus on what it does and what it
does it's already done, which is namely
ensure that we're going to have fiscal
deficits of 6 or 7%. For the as far as
we can see and we are now politicizing
the Fed such that we know the Fed is
going to run the economy hot and the
market doesn't need to know anything
more than that. Record highs just about.
Jay, thank you sir. Jay Pelosky at TPW
Advisory. Do you care about the
shutdown? Nope. Care about earnings two
weeks away. JP Morgan just around the
corner.
>> A lot of people say this will be the
risk event going into the fourth
quarter. Do you see the proof behind all
the high expectations? And if you don't,
how big is the potential downdraft?
>> Equity futures this morning down by
about two-tenths of 1% on the S&P 500.
Let's get you some news worldwide. Some
breaking headlines from Exxon just
moments ago. With a wrap here's the
Bloomberg Brief with Romaine Quinn. Hey
Romaine. Hey John, good morning. Yep,
we'll get to that Exxon news in just a
moment. But first on that shutdown the
US likely headed for it. Senate
Republican Majority Leader John Thune
said Democrats' refusal to approve a
short-term spending bill amounts to
hostage taking. Democratic Senator Chuck
Schumer said Democrats could settle for
some of their priorities such as
extending subsidies for Affordable Care
Act premiums.
President Trump and Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu have agreed
to a 20-point plan designed to end the
war in Gaza. But it's unclear if Hamas
will accept the proposal which calls for
the group to disarm, relinquish control
of Gaza and release all hostages.
And Exxon planning to cut about 2,000
jobs globally as part of its long-term
restructuring plan. The reductions
account for about 30 to 40% of its
workforce. Other major oil companies
including BP and Chevron have also
recently announced cuts as crude prices
fell this year. And that is your
Bloomberg Brief, John. Romaine, thank
you. More from Romaine in about 30
minutes time. Up next on the program
heading towards a government shutdown.
We have very large differences on health
care
and on their ability to undo whatever
budget we agree to.
>> We're headed into a shutdown because the
Democrats won't do the right thing. That
conversation up next with Terry Haines
of Pan G A Policy live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Sounds like some of the data said this
week might not get payrolls data on
Friday. That might be delayed. There are
other data points to look for. The PMIs,
ISM coming up on Wednesday. Jobs data
coming out later on this morning. So
keep an eye on that. And we will get
some earnings. Nike after the closing
bell. Nike work worth a look. Just how
they're dealing and confronting the
tariff story of the last six months.
Yeah, and the supply chains with the
tariffs there's a question of how much
they can pass along to consumers. What
we've heard more broadly from retailers
is that they are incrementally
increasing prices and taking it on the
margin and also passing it on to
suppliers. But in the years to come in
the months to come expect those prices
to go up.
>> Nike results after the closing bell.
Look out for that. Two days of gains on
the S&P running into this. We're down
about a quarter of 1% on the S&P 500. On
the Nasdaq we're down by two-tenths. In
a bond market yields just a little bit
lower at the front end of the curve.
Two's down by two and a 10-year down by
one. Let's call it 4.13.
Under Savannah's this morning we're
headed towards a government shutdown.
We have very large differences on health
care
and on their ability to undo whatever
budget we agree to. You don't say the
fact that you disagree about a
particular tax provision is an excuse
for shutting down the people's
government.
>> Their bill has not one iota of
Democratic input. That is never how
we've done this before. We're headed
into a shutdown because the Democrats
won't do the right thing. So here's the
latest this morning. The Senate planning
to hold a vote today in a final effort
to avoid a government shutdown with
funding set to lapse at midnight.
Joining us from Washington is
Bloomberg's Laura Davison. Laura,
welcome to the program. Senator Schumer
said this that our differences on health
care, on their ability to undo whatever
budget we agree to, are very large. Can
you just elaborate on that? Where is the
space for a compromise here?
So the space for compromise here is
Democrats need about eight of them to
pass this bill. Republicans need to
convince about eight Democrats to join
with them. Democrats' big ask is a
renewal of these Obamacare tax
subsidies.
Democrats want to extend these
indefinitely, permanently. You know
where will probably see the negotiations
go is that they will look at you know
whether to extend them for just a couple
years, maybe scale down the the
eligibility. But the point the point is
here is that just you know less than 24
hours ahead of the deadline you know
these talks haven't even started. It's
very clear that both sides are very dug
in. They had this meeting at the White
House yesterday. We just heard those
clips of Vance and Schumer coming out of
that meeting. Both sides are ready for a
fight and you know absent some sort of
last minute 11th hour agreement we're
going to head into a shutdown at
midnight. Well Laura, can we even have a
last minute agreement in the sense that
House Republicans the House isn't even
in session right now. So isn't the
discussion in Washington how long this
could last? And what's your sense for
how long we could be shut down?
It's clear that there's going to be at
least a couple days here. As you
mentioned the House isn't even in town.
You know lawmakers would have to fly
back. But this could be a much longer
shutdown. You know we saw you know a
shutdown of more than a month in Trump's
first term.
It really is you know each side is
testing out whether you know they are
going to have the political advantage
here. You know we're going into the
shutdown because both sides, both
Republicans and Democrats, think that
the other party will take the blame. Of
course someone will end up you know
getting taking the political risk on
here. But Democrats think that once
people realize you know how much health
care premiums could go up that they will
be the victors.
Republicans say that this is Democrats
forcing the shutdown. They want to keep
the government open. But but their
opponents won't let that happen. Laura,
appreciate your time. Laura Davison
there of Bloomberg down in Washington
DC. To build on this Terry Haines of Pan
G A Policy joins us now for more. Terry,
this shutdown has been your base case
for quite a while and as you indicate a
lot of other people are now finally
catching up. Question we've got on Wall
Street for markets is just how long this
is going to go on for. How delayed some
of these data points might be.
Well my instinct John is this probably
goes on for about a week. You know both
I wrote
I've been writing this for a long time.
But on Sunday I I wrote you know
basically performative politics plus
policy procrastination probably
prevails. And
and I think it does. But both parties
want their little demonstration if you
if you will. But I don't think either
either party is interested in
shouldering the blame of a longer
shutdown that actually
becomes more dangerous to the underlying
economy. Certainly Trump wouldn't want
that. He just got really good economic
numbers. Democrats don't want that
because they don't want to be accused of
undermining that. So
here we are. So they both get their
little
they both get their little moments in
the sun and then I think they move on.
Terry, when it comes to the politics
Republicans have control of the House,
the Senate and executive branch. Was it
a mistake for Senator Schumer and
Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries to
actually go to the White House and have
this meeting that nothing came of?
No, I don't think it's a mistake. You
know I think you always want to look
like you're engaged on either side.
Democrats' problem, and it is a Democrat
problem, simply because what Republicans
want is is very simple. We want to keep
the government open and we're going to
do a clean bill to let that happen for a
little while. Democrats want stuff.
So they have to figure out how to get
it.
Senator Schumer's problem is that
now he looks like he's willing to shut
the government down not on anything
substantive, but it's all very
procedural and technical. Republicans
have agreed, Trump agrees to have a have
a negotiation about the Obamacare
subsidies for example.
Republicans have wanted on a temporary
spending bill and
you know
Schumer always says, well, you know,
they didn't you know, they didn't want
us to negotiate. They didn't do this,
didn't do that. Well, Democrats weren't
clear about what it is that they wanted
until about 2 weeks ago. So both sides
are kind of gaming this a little bit.
But procedural arguments never win and
with with the public. And so what's
going to have to happen is you know,
Democrats have a win in front of them
that they could have taken anytime in
the last week which is you know, say
that Republicans agreed to negotiate.
We're going to do that. We're going to
keep the government open which helps all
those unionized
public workers that actually support
them
and you kind of move on to the next
thing.
But when you're trying to show everybody
you want to stand up to bad orange man,
that's tough lift because
you have to have that performance. Well,
yesterday when the vice president was
briefing us, he talked about how rural
health care funding is potentially one
area of compromise. If this was to be
the area for potential off-ramp, how
quickly could we see that?
Well, that's why you need a to me that's
why you need a an extension and why why
an extension of time to negotiate is is
is is part of the
my 40% case
because the details of that are simply
too difficult to be worked out very very
quickly and then the perspective the
prospect of harm is very great.
Terry, it it did feel like something was
different with the threat of widespread
layoffs in a government shutdown. Why do
you discount that and just think that
this is more performative?
I don't discount it. I just thought the
Democrats got an opportunity out of it.
The
firstly, let me say that the widespread
layoffs have now morphed into furloughs
for the vast majority of the government
according to your reporting and
situation on the ground. So you know,
exactly what might happen should there
be a shutdown to to federal workers is
is fairly unclear and varies by agency.
Secondly, I discount it because if the
if there's a shutdown that ends, the
implicit
the implicit promise here is that the
vast majority of those workers come
back. That's very true if there's a
furlough. So what they're trying to do
is engage in kind of a technical
exercise to save money. But understand
that that's a pressure point for that's
a pressure point on Democrats to
to not have a shutdown in order to help
the public sector unions just like
threatening no data from the BLS for
example is a pressure point on among
other places markets in order to
in order to get Democrats to think twice
about this. Just quickly here Terry, is
the shutdown only going to end with the
Democrats cave?
I don't think they I don't think they
cave. I don't look at this stuff in a
binary manner generally.
What they need to do is is take the win
that's in front of them frankly. And
they have a win. If people want to
negotiate on their priorities,
that's a yes, right? So you take the yes
and and good things happen. But I think
what you know, my 60% base case now is
that you know, you get you have to have
at least from the Democrats, you have to
have at least a little demonstration
that you're willing to stand up to the
bad orange man which you haven't really
had all year. Terry, appreciate it.
Terry Haines there of Pan G a policy.
Let's think about the kind of data
ahead. We've got payrolls on Friday. You
talked about CPI. I think it's 2 weeks
tomorrow. So depending on how long this
goes on, that depends on the kind of
data points we'll miss out on. Yeah, and
that leads us up to the Fed meeting
which is October 29th-30th which means
that we might have no new information
that is the gold standard for the Fed to
work with before cutting it again 25
basis points.
>> need Fed officials?
Can we confirm that they're going to be
kept on? Terry Haines said that it's a
threat from BLS. There's a chance
potentially President Trump deems them
essential and and we get the report.
Chap has essential, isn't he? I think
so. If he doesn't get paid, it's a whole
show these days for this administration.
>> Couldn't agree more. From New York City,
this is Bloomberg.
It's 2:01 Eastern time on the S&P 500
lower this morning down by 2/10 of 1%.
Likewise on the Nasdaq on the month so
far for September up on the month by 3%
on the S&P on the Nasdaq 100 up by 5.
For the benchmark the S&P 500, we're
looking at a fifth consecutive month of
gains. That's equities. Turn to the bond
market. 2s, 10s, 30s. 2s on the month
virtually unchanged. Yields down just a
basis point on the session 360.
Something that's not unchanged, check
this out. Gold up 10% for the month of
September. A monster rally for precious
metals.
>> Yeah, it's been a haven and it continues
to be as people try to understand the
resilience of the bond market. I'm
actually more focused on the bond market
today. The idea that Saudi Arabia, the
Bank of Saudi Arabia is single-handedly
reducing borrowing costs around the
world because of their increase in
production and how that is driving some
of the action that we saw yesterday in
the bond space. Not the Fed. It is the
central bank of the Middle East.
>> yesterday morning. This morning just to
finish on gold up 10% month-to-date the
biggest monthly gain potentially since
2020.
3 hours away from the open. Balance
gives some single names to morning
movers. With the latest, it's Yohai
Elam. Hey Yohai. Hi John. We start with
EchoStar. Those shares are surging 7% in
the pre-market on our reporting here at
Bloomberg that Verizon is the latest
company showing interest in buying some
of its wireless spectrum. Remember AT&T
and SpaceX also bought some and paid
well above book value. So investors are
hoping this means another big payday for
EchoStar. And moving on to Coty, this is
the company behind the likes of Sally
Hansen and CoverGirl. Shares are rising
1 and 3/4 percent as investors hope that
a newly announced strategic review will
revive its consumer beauty business
which has been struggling. Sales falling
for three straight quarters. So they are
weighing options such as partnerships or
even divestitures while doubling down on
fragrance which is a hot area in the
beauty market. And we end on Firefly
Aerospace. Those shares are plunging
nearly 10% in the pre-market after the
company said that one of its rockets
that was due to launch in the coming
weeks was destroyed during a test
yesterday. It's the latest mishap. It
had another incident back in April. And
it just went public back in August. So
it is still trying to prove that it can
compete in the ultra-competitive
commercial launch market dominated of
course by SpaceX. John. Yohai, thank
you. More from Yohai in the next hour.
On our radar this morning, the vice
president J.D. Vance saying a government
shutdown is imminent and putting the
blame on Democrats. Yesterday's meeting
at the White House failing to bridge the
divide over Democratic demands for
health care subsidies. That's where
President Donald Trump inviting a
20-point plan for a potential end to the
Israel-Hamas war calling it a historic
day for peace. The proposal backed by
the Israeli prime minister calling for
an immediate ceasefire and the release
of nearly 2,000 prisoners. And finally,
the president also announcing new
tariffs on imported wood products
including a 10% tax on lumber and up to
25% on kitchen cabinets. The move which
starts October 14th is designed to boost
domestic manufacturing. So once again,
we see the president going into just
looking at sectors and using 232 as an
avenue, a path forward to enact these
tariffs. All of this is happening while
we are waiting for the court to decide
whether or not IEEPA was legal or not.
If the courts come down and say it was
illegal to use IEEPA, well, look, this
administration is going to be able to
raise funds
via another avenue. And potentially,
we're going to see more of this if IEEPA
is struck down. Nathan Sheets of
Cornerstone says this story is about to
bite. Manny Roman of Pimco on the
program yesterday said something similar
that this could be a thing for the
equity market into year end. Especially
if we start seeing the actual cost to
margins from some of these tariffs. Who
are these tariffs for? Especially if
they are supposed to protect industries.
And with the home builders, it's even
more interesting because there has been
a groundswell to support home buying and
home building in this country. And all
of a sudden, you have the National
Association of Home Builders saying our
housing crisis is a bigger threat to
national security than imported lumber
or timber. It disproportionately hits
Canada. A real question here about how
much companies are going to have to
adapt and adjust as they start seeing
the real world impact. Remember the
earnings call when the RH CEO was
throwing around F bombs? He also said,
"God forbid they throw another tariff
our way." He said, "Give me a call. I
run the biggest luxury brand in the
world. Give me a call." Well, good
morning. Here's another tariff.
>> Yeah, the RH CEO not in a good place.
That's for sure. Nike's going to be in
focus with a tariff story absolutely
dominant. Earnings are due after the
market close with investors eager to see
the impacts of tariffs to the company's
turnaround progress. Jay Sole of UBS
raising his price target on the stock to
71 but writing, "We don't expect Nike to
provide formal full year 2026 guidance
and tariff policies remain uncertain."
Jay joins us now for more. Jay, welcome
to the program, sir. Thanks for making
some time for us. Let's just talk about
your channel checks first. How do you
think demand has held up?
Well, I think demand is getting a little
bit better for Nike but it's still weak
on a year-over-year basis. Sales are
probably down year-over-year for Nike
this quarter. What's preventing them
from guiding into 2026 with a little bit
more clarity?
Well, I think you touched on it before.
I think tariffs is one factor that's
really
limiting their ability to have
in to give guidance because obviously
there's the cost impact but also they
don't know what impact the prices
increases will have on consumer spending
as we get into the all important holiday
season because they they don't know how
to forecast that they're going to be
hesitant to give guidance we think. Well
that's a Jay a lot of people said that
the back to school season is a good
predictor of holiday demand. Do you
think that that correlation has broken
down this year?
Well I don't think it's broken down. I
just think we're going to have a
different environment in holiday than
we've had in back to school. Back to
school was good by all accounts people
were out shopping there was good fashion
trends a lot of companies reported
upside to consensus estimates when they
when they gave their earnings updates
but in holiday maybe we see prices go up
a little bit more because of tariffs and
that could create a different dynamic
which causes the consumer to pull back.
Now there's a chance that might not
happen if you ask consumers right now we
do a survey of 8,000 US consumers every
month you know they're saying they're
feeling pretty good and they want to
have a great holiday season but you know
maybe that attitude will change once
they see pricing increases at retail.
What's interesting to me is a lot of
CEOs of retailers don't know themselves
how much consumers are going to be able
to absorb these price increases. They're
kind of testing the waters. It seems
like some brands that have more staying
power more popularity more flash are
able to raise prices more than others.
How is Nike doing in that competitive
landscape?
Well I would say Nike's sort of in the
middle of the pack. You know I think the
key in the world of athletic apparel and
footwear to raising prices is
innovation. When you have new innovation
that consumers really excited about you
know the brand that offers that
innovation can raise price and the
consumers will happy to pay it but right
now Nike doesn't have that much new
innovation. They have some but they need
more. If they had more they could raise
prices better but right now like I said
they're sort of in the middle where they
need more to really get the price
increases they need. What about when it
comes to just being cool? My 9-year-old
nephew called me because he wanted on
shoes sneakers for back to school after
his mom bought him Nikes. Is Nike still
just still struggling to be relevant?
Well first of all that's a great story.
Your 9-year-old wants on that's I think
that's a pretty great anecdote there.
You know I think the issue for Nike is
that for the last few years they were
really depending on three or four key
styles you know the Air Jordan 1 the Air
Force 1 you know the Air Max and
consumers really bought so much of these
styles now they're sort of looking for
something different and Nike doesn't
quite have enough to offer them yet in
that important lifestyle category for
you know kids who are just want to go to
school in a cool looking shoe. So and
that's kind of relates to what I
mentioned before so they don't quite
have enough innovation. When they fix
that issue you know Nike's going to be
strong again. They just did a
mashup with Skims and of course the
World Cup is next year. Are these
avenues where they could potentially get
some of their mojo back?
Um perhaps you know the World Cup is a
great event obviously it's a great
global sporting event. Nike obviously is
one of the biggest if not the biggest
soccer brand in the world so that should
be a good opportunity for Nike to show
what it can do both in terms of product
innovation and marketing. Um the Nike
Skims thing we'll see it's new. Um
they're you know obviously Nike has
has had big ambitions over many years to
do better in women's apparel. This is
the latest attempt we'll see if it
works. And Jay the losers the real
losers around swear the second biggest
loser on the S&P this year Lulu the
third biggest loser on the S&P 500 this
year Deckers think Hoka. Jay what's
happened with those two companies?
What's going wrong?
Well I think what's going right first of
all there's still a great trend toward
athletic footwear. Consumers are buying
a lot more athletic footwear this year
than they did last year but with those
stocks in particular you know the market
had super high expectations at the
beginning of the year and and neither
company really lived up to those
expectations and that caused huge PE
multiple contraction. You know the
industry is still very healthy in our
view it's like sometimes you know
there's stocks that outperform others
based on you know the companies just do
better and for Lulu and Deckers the
situation is like I said you know the
both companies just didn't quite quite
live up to what the investors were
hoping for. How much Jay do you expect
announcements of layoffs going forward
in the next 6 to 12 months? We've
already seen it on the margins at a
number of retailers with a greater
adoption of different technologies I'm
thinking AI algorithmic machine
learning.
Well I think AI is certainly helping a
lot of companies in the world of apparel
and footwear. I don't really expect a
lot of layoffs. I expect productivity
gains to be used to offset maybe margin
pressure in other areas from tariffs. I
think that AI is going to open up some
employees within companies to do more
high value add tasks. Um you know making
apparel and footwear is very creative
process that requires you know smart
people
um and it's better if they can use their
time thinking creatively than doing
maybe easy tasks that can be passed off
to AI. So I I think the employment
outlook for apparel and footwear is
actually still pretty good. Hey Jay
appreciate your time. Jay Seldin of UPS.
Jay thank you sir. Lulu down 53% year to
date. Deckers is down about 49. Those
stocks cut in half. Best performing
stock on the S&P 500 this year guess
what? Robinhood.
That's fascinating.
>> performing name on the S&P for 25. How
many how many clothes do you have to
actually buy if you're sitting in your
basement trading stocks?
>> Up 267%.
Bitcoin gold. It's not bad is it?
>> Bitcoin. Does that speak to the year so
far? It basically does. The the average
person isn't going out and bulking up on
on beautiful or even mid-tier clothes.
Well other things too is the styles are
changing so this is not as cool anymore
for a lot of these brands. They're just
not innovating in a way and connecting
with the younger generation. Nike
reporting after the close in about look
out for those numbers a little bit
later. Equity futures on the S&P just a
bit softer we're down by 2/10 of 1% with
an update on stories worldwide. Let's
get to your Bloomberg brief and
crossover to Voni Quinn. Hey Voni. Hey
John thank you.
President Trump and Defense Secretary
Pete Hegseth will address US military
officials in person at a Marine base in
Quantico Virginia today.
Last week Hegseth summoned top military
commanders to the base for the meeting.
A Pentagon spokesman did not provide a
reason for the meeting nor say what
Hegseth plans to tell the high ranking
officials.
BHP shares are dropping this morning on
the deepening dispute between China and
the world's biggest miner. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg the
nation's state-run iron ore miner has
told major steelmakers to temporarily
hold all new purchases from BHP.
Boeing has started working on a next
generation single-aisle aircraft that
could eventually replace the 737 Max.
The Wall Street Journal reporting the
new narrow-body aircraft is in early
stage development. It comes amid growing
concern about the safety of the current
737 Max.
That is your Bloomberg brief John. Hey
Voni thank you appreciate it. More from
Voni in about 30 minutes time. Up next
on the program adding to tariff risk.
Life in industrial America isn't great.
I mean top line is not is not is not
growing and one of the question that we
don't know is the impact of tariff.
There's a whole leg of the of the of the
equation that we haven't really seen. Up
next we'll catch up with the former
White House senior trade advisor
Kellyanne Shaw live from New York City
this morning. Good morning to all.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Two-day winning streak on the S&P 500 as
we look to close out the month of
September with another monthly gain.
We're looking for five consecutive
months of gains on the S&P 500 futures
this morning down by 0.2 on the Nasdaq
down by 0.16. One single name to look at
Exxon. News this hour that Exxon plans
to cut about 2,000 jobs globally. That
stock is pretty much unchanged this
morning but that effort from Darren
Woods that goes back to something like
2019 to restructure this company
continues. Yeah and this has to do with
a Canadian outpost that's cutting a
significant amount of jobs. It comes
after a number of job announcements job
cut announcements from big oil
companies. ConocoPhillips cutting 20 to
25% of their staff. Chevron are like 15
to 20% of their staff. BP 15% of their
staff. Halliburton up to 40% of some of
its units. You look at this you think
okay lower oil prices what is that doing
to the labor backdrop for the oil
sector? That's an interesting story.
>> The Dallas Fed puts out a quarterly
energy survey and this was the last one
for the current quarter. Three big
issues here for exploration and
production firms. Access in the global
oil market is restraining oil prices
near term. There is continued
uncertainty from OPEC plus and winding
production cuts and finally trade and
tariff changes and the resulting
geopolitical tensions. Costs are up.
This is a problem for the oil patch
right now they're struggling. They're
facing costs. They're facing new
technologies that can allow them to
perhaps trim around the edges and then
they're also facing just lower energy
prices with the Central Bank of Saudi
Arabia continuing to gun it in order to
lower oil prices. It's a pretty toxic
brew for them. It just raises a question
of what this does longer term to their
productive capacity given how the US
became almost oil independent energy
independent when it came to the oil
patch in years past.
>> from Exxon this morning planning to cut
about 2,000 jobs globally. And this is
evidence this morning adding to tariff
risk.
Life in industrial America isn't great.
I mean top line is not is not is not
growing and one of the question that we
don't know is the impact of tariff and
what will happen in corporate America in
terms of
how they're going to deal with either
passing on prices or diminishing margin
and so there's a whole leg of the of the
of the equation that we haven't really
seen. So here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump ordering a fresh
round of tariffs on lumber cabinets and
furniture set to take effect in the
middle of October. John Getsinger to
discuss is the former White House senior
trade advisor Kellyanne Shaw. Kellyanne
good to see you. You are charged with
explaining where this ends. Where does
this end? What are the limits of this
strategy, this policy? Well, I I I don't
think there is an end in sight, at least
not for the duration of this
administration. I mean, the president is
continuing to roll out various tariffs.
We obviously saw timber and lumber last
night. We're expecting pharmaceutical
and trucks this week. And there's at
least 11 more 232 investigations in
queue, if not more that we don't quite
know about.
>> The problem is you put tariffs on one
sector, you might help them out, you'll
hurt another. Lisa was talking about
house building. Need to build houses in
this country. You put tariffs on lumber,
great for domestic lumber, not so good
if you're trying to build a house. See
this across the board when it comes to
things like furniture. Put tariffs on
furniture, fantastic if you're a
furniture maker in North Carolina. Good
news, maybe. But if you're Restoration
Hardware, to AnneMarie's point, you've
got a problem. What's the overall
strategy here? Are they thinking about
who this hurts, who this doesn't hurt,
if it helps people upstream, who it
hurts downstream? Are they going through
all of that?
Yeah, I I think it's a great question
and we are seeing some of this. This
tariff inversion issue where all of a
sudden the parts and components that you
need to manufacture become
disproportionately more expensive. So,
it's less competitive to build or create
in the US. So, what the administration
is likely going to do over time is try
to uninverted these tariffs. But right
now, their strategy is to get it all
out. This is a once-in-a-generation
change in terms of the way the US
collects tariff revenue and I think
we'll see some changes over time to try
to make some tweaks along the margins.
But right now, you're right, there's
there's just a lot happening right now.
Is this more about the revenue right now
than it is about really shifting where
manufacturing happens? I I have always
been of the view that the revenue is not
the most important part of the
president's strategy. I think that this
is about rebalancing the trading
relationships. It's about the trade
deficit and it's about national security
and supply chains. I think the revenue
is a happy circumstance from the
administration's perspective. I also
think it's really important to the
markets in a way that for some in the
administration, it doesn't quite
register. If I were an investor trying
to understand what national security
means and I think about lumber as a
national security issue, but TikTok, at
least if it's owned partly by Oracle,
not being a national security issue and
some of the chip exports maybe not
anymore being a national security issue.
Is there any cohesive thread as to what
is and what isn't a national security
risk? So, I think it's a great question
and and part of it depends on the sector
or the good or the service that's being
targeted. So, when you look at these
sectoral tariffs, the concept behind it
is there certain things that we need to
produce in the United States in the
event of wartime event, pandemic, some
sort of force majeure, we need to be
able to have production capacity. And
so, those are on the goods themselves.
These other export controls and other
types of uh investment screening
mechanism, those are about services and
other types of economic behavior. So, I
do think you can separate those a bit.
If IEEPA is struck down in the courts,
is that why you think they're doing all
these sectoral tariffs? Cuz you said a
maybe a dozen more set to come. Yeah,
and there could be more that we don't
even know about because they aren't
announcing when they launch these
investigations. What I would say is I
don't think that replacing the current
IEEPA tariffs with 232 strategy is very
good policy in part because the IEEPA
tariffs are about countrywide tariffs.
These sectoral tariffs are really about
products and specific products. They
don't quite match up. Now, that's not to
say that the administration isn't going
to use all the different authority they
have to try to replace IEEPA, but I do
think that creates a bit of a messy
patchwork if that's in fact what's going
on. We also had the Commerce Department
expand the entity list yesterday. What
does that mean for the US-China ongoing
trade negotiations? Yeah, I think that's
a great question, too. And those
negotiations were continuing just this
last week when you had Chinese
negotiators in town. So, we had
understood that this move was previewed
by the US to the Chinese side in
advance, which often happens with some
big moves on either side. So, you try to
take the temperature down and you don't
have this immediate reaction. But I
think what it shows is that the US and
China are going to continue to walk and
chew gum at the same time. Meaning,
they're going to continue to take
measures that hurt one another at the
same time as try to make progress where
they can. Are they going to buy some
soybeans?
It sure looks like
>> a massive problem. Yeah, it sure looks
like they're gearing up for that. You
had Chinese officials visiting the
Midwest, talking to business leaders,
potentially flagging some interest with
farmers. I think that's going to be a
top ask by the Trump administration, but
you've also had on the other hand, the
president say that he's going to give
some of this tariff revenue to farmers
to try to make up for some of the
difference. So, you've got two things
going on. The government needs to be
open in order for them to vote on giving
this bailout to the farmers, but why is
the purchasing agreements not in the
forefront? Why have they not been
brought up on the number of trade
negotiations Bessent, Lutnick, Jamison
and Greer have all had with the Chinese?
Well, I strongly suspect they have been
discussed in part because the Chinese
already committed to purchase soybeans,
aircraft and energy products as part of
that phase one deal from way back in
Trump 1.0 and they didn't live up to
those commitments. But for China to make
some of these big purchase announcement,
that to me signals something that will
happen alongside a leader summit. So, we
could see that as soon as the APEC
meeting, but most likely some sort of
Beijing trip when President Trump goes
to meet formally with President Xi. When
do we have this APEC meeting potentially
between Xi and Trump? I mean, they said
at minimum there's going to be a pull
aside as they attend this summit. Who
has the leverage going into this?
I think both sides have leverage. I
mean, clearly the Chinese have leverage
over the United States when it comes to
rare earth magnets, critical minerals.
They've got choke points on certain
aspects of the US economy, which is what
is so concerning to the administration.
But you heard Secretary Bessent last
week talk about chemicals, the fact that
China can't fly their airplanes without
the United States. There are choke
points both ways and I think both
countries are trying to navigate that
dynamic. It was always clear that the US
and China were something of adversaries.
Do we have a clearer sense of who the
US's friends are right now?
Well, I I think this administration is a
bit more transactional than we've seen
previous administrations. Meaning, we
can be friends, we can be allies, but we
can also go after you for economic
reasons and on the trade front. And the
opposite can be true as well. We can
cooperate on trade and be national
security adversaries, which is some of
the dynamic we've seen play out with
India and purchases of Russian oil. But
I would say our traditional allies
continue to be our allies, but there is
friction on the trade and economic
front.
>> Europeans picking a side?
I This is something the Europeans have
always struggled with.
>> Big time.
Yeah.
And something we need to sort out, too.
Because you look across the EU right now
and you ask Spain, I think they've got
one view. Ask Italy, they've got
another. This is the feature and the bug
of the European Union is that they don't
speak with one voice and that considers
used to be an issue. I just wonder, can
you distill the idea of an economic
relationship from a geopolitical and
strategic one? Is there really a
dividing line between these ideas or are
these typically intertwined that
economic and strategic tend to go hand
in hand?
>> Well, China's been an adversary for a
long, long time and we've still traded
with them. Then it's the first time
really that we've had tariffs that are
so, so high that that trade is starting
to break down. And you were the one that
pointed out that the initial thought was
the more that we do business, the more
you actually increase some of the ties
and increase the global system. Right.
Well, at what point, if that's not true,
does that break down? But does that
doesn't undermine the idea that
typically, I mean, the idea of money,
sorry. I'm going to get a little
philosophical. But the idea of money is
actually rooted in debt. It is the
social ties that bind one another. It
isn't necessarily I owe you this for the
number of apples, so I'll give you two
shoes. It's the idea of, you know, I owe
you this in some sort of social
relationship. So, at what point are
those connected?
>> Yeah, Russia.
Kind of the example of the moment to
show you that that doesn't work. That's
true. Exactly.
>> Russia and the Europeans. That's what
Angela Merkel thought. We'll trade with
the Russians, we'll keep them on side
and look how that worked out.
>> worked. So, what's the new order? This
is a new moment. Coming up, Katherine
Row time.
>> Yeah, exactly. Cannian, it's good to see
you. Thank you. Thanks for being here.
Cannian Show there, the former White
House trade advisor on the push forward
between the United States and China and
a whole lot more. The tariffs keep
accumulating. If you are just joining
us, welcome to the program. Equity
futures just a bit softer here on the
S&P 500 on the final trading day for the
month of September and for Q3. Coming up
next, Phil Orlando of Federated Global
Investment. We'll catch up with Monica
Guerra of Morgan Stanley. Vino Krishna
of Barclays with a new report on AI and
lots of questions about bubbles. And
later, the Citizens Financial CEO, Bruce
Van Saun. From New York City, the second
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance up next.
[Music]
The market continues to make new highs.
Higher productivity supports higher
valuations. The market clearly is
pricing in a decent amount of
expectation for forward growth.
>> Let's not just focus on the
expectations, but also about the market
action. You need to put your money
somewhere and the reality is the US is
the only place where you can actually
put scale.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz and
AnneMarie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now
and your scores look like this. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 a little bit
softer following two days of gains and
heading towards a fifth consecutive
monthly advance on the S&P 500. In a
bond market, two year and 10 year looks
like this. Yields unchanged on twos on
the session and on the month so far for
September, 361 65 as we count you down
to a week full of economic data with a
major question mark over payrolls as
this government heads towards a
shutdown.
>> It seems like it's looking less likely
that we'll get that. Interesting,
markets are shrugging it off saying we
care about ADP more and it's been more
accurate anyway. At the same time, it
raises the specter of not getting CPI
next week and having no new official
information, the gold standard type of
data, coming before the Fed has to make
another decision. This goes to the
stasis you're seeing in two-year yields.
That balance between hawks and doves
kind of staying the same place since the
last time they met. The Fed meeting's
October 28th and 29th, CPI's October
15th. The question in Washington is not
if there's going to be a government
shutdown. There will be a government
shutdown. It's for how long it's going
to last. And how are you going to be a
data-dependent Fed if you do not have
the data, which is why I think even
though the BLS came out with their
contingency planning, I could see a
scenario the president says, "Actually,
this is really important and I'm going
to deem a certain amount of workers at
BLS essential to make sure that these
economic reports come out." That's not
thinking right now because we have the
statement from BLS, but it's a
possibility.
>> This Fed kind of around the data they've
already got. I'm not sure what
difference additional data makes at this
point for some of these officials. If I
were a conspiracy theorist, I would say
maybe it's actually in the best interest
of policy and of the president to keep
these people for a little for a while.
Because ultimately, if nothing changes,
insurance is to still cut rates. And if
you're going to cut rates into a
re-acceleration, which is what a lot of
people think, then well, you don't want
any data that might actually be an
upside surprise. I'm very curious to see
about ADP. And if it surprises the
upside, what kind of signal this market
>> We're hiding positive data now. Is that
a conspiracy theory?
>> I actually I'm just making stuff up. I
don't think they're actually hiding
anything just to be very clear. I'm just
saying that I think that right now it is
likely that we're not going to get the
data. ADP is going to be more important,
that's all I'm going to say. The Fed
meeting at the end of October. Equity
futures right now in the S&P negative by
2/10 of 1%. Coming up this hour, Phil
Orlando of Federated Global Investment
as Wall Street looks to close out the
month on a high. Monica Guerra of Morgan
Stanley with the clock ticking towards a
government shutdown. And Bruce Van Saun
of Citizens Financial Group with the US
economy at a crossroads. We begin this
hour with stocks inching lower ahead of
fresh jobs data through the week. Phil
Orlando of Federated Global Investment
sees momentum building. He writes the
following, "Given the potential for a
strengthening labor market and
moderating inflation, economic growth
could accelerate in the second half of
this year." Phil joins us now for more.
Phil, good morning. Good morning. Thanks
for having me back.
>> Thanks for being here. Just to build on
that quote, is that the story we're
priced for?
Uh stock market's up 38% in since the
liberation day lows back in the middle
of April. So clearly they're not jumping
out of the upper floors of the towers
because they're concerned that the labor
market's collapsing. Has the data been
soft the last four months? No question.
Uh but in our view, the the data was
sort of troughing here and has the
potential to accelerate going into the
next couple of months. Relative to what?
This is what I want to understand.
Clearly we're priced for a lot of this
going into 2026. Expectations have
already picked up. We've had the equity
market rally. How much of that has been
about earnings? How much of that is just
a better economic story already? So the
earning situation we think is is
excellent. You know, you look at the
first quarter and the second quarter,
second quarter revenues up 6%, earnings
up 12%, much better than expected.
The consensus expectations for the third
quarter starting to come in. Those
numbers look pretty strong. We're in the
process of upgrading our earnings
estimates for full year this year, full
year next year. So the earnings
picture's in pretty good shape. Clearly,
the labor market has been the weak link.
Now you look at the August jobs report,
it was it was terrible, admittedly. But
there are a couple of things associated
with that. Number one,
August tends to be the quirkiest month
of the year. You you've got, you know,
school starting and starting up again,
factories taking downtime to retool,
temporarily furloughing workers. So the
August nonfarm payroll report
historically is is the the quirkiest
report of the year. So you look at,
for example, Kevin Hassett, national
chairman director, uh came out and said
that they're expecting 70,000 jobs to be
revised up over the course of the next
couple of months. That's consistent with
what we've seen historically. The the
the all of the noise and the nonsense in
August tends to get revised up. All
right, that's point number one. Point
number two, when we saw the initial
weekly jobless claims the first week of
September, the numbers were terrible. I
think it was about 264,000.
The market was was freaking out a little
bit, but you know, we suggested take a
deep breath.
Number one, it's a holiday shortened
week. And number two, you had the
allegations of claims fraud in Texas. So
as we went to the next week, which was
the survey week for September, the
number came down about 230,000. Then
last week came down further about
217,000.
So we think the claims are pointing to
the fact that the numbers are going to
be pretty good. And then, you know, we
we were talking about nonfarm versus ADP
going into this, the expectations for
ADP
about 50,000 plus, that's kind of the
number we're looking for for nonfarm.
That would be a number roughly double
what we saw in the month of August for
nonfarm. So we we think the labor market
there there may be a little too much
pessimism
built in. So our expectation that the
numbers probably trough here and we'll
start to see some improvement.
>> Given that backdrop, there's a mystery
and we were unpacking that ahead of the
Nike earnings after the bell. This idea
even CEOs don't know how much consumers
will absorb price increases. How what is
the connection right now between
corporate profits and potential
inflationary pressure? I no question. If
you you look at the piece that I wrote
last week focused on how good the
back-to-school season was. Back to
school was up 4.2%
three months through August. Back to
school a year ago was only up 2.3%. So
the the the the consumer's in pretty
good shape, particularly at the high
end. But I think there is absolutely
some some
consternation about what pricing is,
particularly at the low end of the price
spectrum. So companies you're all going
to have to, you know, sort of weigh that
that that that situation. Um
high-end consumers can afford a little
bit more in pricing. But the question of
are there going to be any forced pricing
issues because of the tariff situation
that companies need to pass on in order
to maintain profit margins? Profit
margins have been pretty strong up until
now. Is that situation going to
deteriorate in the third quarter and the
fourth quarter? We don't know the data
yet, but but that's something that we're
going to have to see. The big question
mark over this has been holding back the
broadening out in the S&P 500, in the
Russell 2000, in the S&P 600, pick your
index. How much are you betting that we
are going to see that broadening out
versus just this consolidation in big
tech, this idea that the profits will
continue to be driven
by the biggest 10 names? We're we're
absolutely in the broadening out camp
and and that's been our call for the
last year. And in case in point, look
how well the the small caps have done,
both growth and value, over the course
of the last couple of months. In our
view, the small caps were completely
mispriced.
And once we began to see the the Fed
tipped over their cards, they're going
to cut interest rates, an interest rate
reduction cycle has usually beneficial
to the small cap companies. It improves
their ability to self-finance, kicks off
an M&A and an IPO cycle.
And
you've got a situation where
domestically we think economic growth is
accelerating. Small cap companies do 80%
of their business here. If the US
economy's doing well, that's going to
benefit small cap companies. But aren't
more tariffs going to hurt small cap
companies? Even if they do business
here, a lot of the imports could be
coming from other countries.
>> Well, again, that's a case-by-case
situation. I I I was on Bloomberg Radio
recently
and we were talking about this and I got
some random person that sent me an email
when I got back to the office asking
that question. Isn't isn't that going to
impact pricing and imports and won't
Christmas sales be a disaster? And and
and the answer in in our situation is we
think it's going to be a case-by-case
situation. How is a company sourcing
what they're selling?
What what's the pricing of that? Can
they source more domestically?
What's their labor situation, immigrant
versus native born? There are a lot of
factors here that are going to dictate
the answer to that question. Is there an
area within the small caps that's immune
to a lot of this? We we love health
care. And and within health care,
biotechnology. The these our
biotechnology gurus are telling us that
that the pipelines have never looked
better, yet the valuations have never
been more extreme, out of favor. And
what we've been waiting for is some
catalyst and we think the interest rate
cutting cycle is that catalyst. The big
cap companies, Pfizer, Merck, etc., will
start to think about, you know, M&A
activity. Lower interest rates again
will make it easier to self-finance. And
people are now going to focus on the
really good phase one, phase two, phase
three clinical work that these companies
have done with their drug development,
that that's the sector we think is is
poised to move higher. Phil, it's good
to see you. Thank you so much for having
me. Thanks for dropping by, Phil Orlando
there at Federated Global Investment.
Small cap futures on the Russell,
Russell 2000 a little bit lower this
morning. On the S&P 500 down by close to
2/10 of 1% with an update on stories
worldwide. Here's your Bloomberg Brief
with Vanya Quinn. Hey, Vanya. Hey, John.
Thank you. Federal agencies preparing
for a government shutdown with detailed
plans that call for temporary furloughs,
but not permanent mass firings. At least
eight cabinet departments comprising
more than 2/3 of the federal workforce
have detailed their shutdown plans as of
Monday afternoon. Together they call for
more than 400,000 employees to be sent
home as non-essential.
President Trump ordered 10% tariffs on
imports of softwood timber and lumber.
Also a 25% duty on kitchen cabinets,
vanities, and upholstered furniture. The
tariffs are set to apply from October
14th with some increases targeted to
take effect next year. Trump said the
planned actions aim to shore up domestic
manufacturing.
After a decade, McDonald's is bringing
back the fan favorite Monopoly game in
an effort to boost sales. The promotion
returns October 6th for a limited time,
but with a digital twist. Instead of a
physical board, customers will play
through the company's mobile app. Prizes
apparently range from free fries to a $1
million cash prize. And that is your
Bloomberg Brief, John. Bonnie, thank
you. Appreciate the update. Up next on
the program, a shutdown showdown.
We have very large differences on
healthcare
and on their ability to undo whatever
budget we agree to.
>> We're headed into a shutdown because the
Democrats won't do the right thing. That
conversation up next with Monica of
Morgan Stanley, live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Equity futures on the S&P just a little
bit softer as we close out the month of
September. We're down by close to 2/10
of 1%. Softer by just 0.1% on the Nasdaq
100. Under Savannah's this morning, a
shutdown showdown.
We have very large differences on
healthcare
and on their ability to undo whatever
budget we agree to.
>> You don't say the fact that you disagree
about a particular tax provision is an
excuse for shutting down the people's
government.
>> Their bill has not one iota of
Democratic input. That is never how
we've done this before.
>> We're headed into a shutdown because the
Democrats won't do the right thing. So
here's the latest this morning, the US
closing in on a government shutdown with
funding set to lapse at midnight. To
discuss, joining us now is Bloomberg's
Laura Davison. Laura, welcome back. Walk
us through how this cascades through the
government over the coming days. What
happens just after midnight tonight?
Yeah, so even starting today around
midday as all the federal agencies start
all of their shutdown procedures. So
they each have plans that designate
certain employees, about 60% or so as
essential. They will stay on the job,
but they will not getting paid be
getting paid. And then about four in 10
employees will be sent home and and will
cease all their work for the duration of
the shutdown. There is a law that says
all of these folks who are furloughed
will get back pay, but this, you know,
if the shutdown lasts for several weeks,
it could be, you know, several weeks
before they get that pay. We saw, you
know, back in 2018 when there was a
34-day shutdown, that started to cause
some economic ripples as people went two
paycheck cycles without getting paid. In
addition,
the White House has also threatened that
certain non-essential employees could be
fired. We have not yet gotten any
indication from agencies about who might
be in scope there, but that is another
pressure point that the White House is
putting on Democrats to end the
shutdown. Laura, appreciate the update.
Laura Davison down in Washington, D.C.
MH, how are you thinking about this?
What does this actually mean for Wall
Street? For Wall Street, the only thing
they're really going to care about is
the economic data. BLS has put out what
they think is going to happen if we have
a shutdown, which is we're going to
cease to have any economic data. I still
think there is a chance that the
president would deem some members of BLS
essential and then basically say, at
least minimum, release the jobs report
on Friday. Cuz all the work for the jobs
report would have been done. Maybe
potentially won't get CPI on October
15th. Besides that, this is just pure
politics until they reopen and then
there's going to be a lot of discussions
about things like bailouts for farmers
and,
you know, appropriation bills that need
to get done to actually
fund the government.
>> I think about Libby Cantrill and her
notes, but but but the one but that I
would say to that is the remarkable care
if you start to see some pretty
widespread layoffs. And if you start to
see an appropriation of
of power to order to cut some of the
federal workforce, do you start to see
some more ramifications, price down? I
do like the second paragraph of a Libby
note.
>> I love that.
>> If you're not familiar, there's always a
but but but
>> Yeah, yeah. and then a paragraph.
>> But I can hear her voice like, you know,
there's this and this could be, but but
but and I think about pretty much every
topic through that lens now.
>> Let's get to some of that now with
Monica of Morgan Stanley. Monica,
welcome to the program.
A lot of people looking through this.
Wall Street saying it doesn't matter,
just show me the economic data and
everything's okay. Do you think about it
slightly differently?
I think you have to look at it, you
know, from
where the risk actually could bubble up.
Now, historically markets do look
through. You get markets outperforming
at average about 4.4% during periods of
shutdown. Granted, they can last from,
you know, 3 days to 34 days. So that's a
huge window in time. But typically, even
with the long shutdowns, you still have
markets outperforming. So the risk comes
in which industries and sectors are most
reliant on those government contracts.
And that's defense, healthcare, etc.
Is this a nice buy opportunity?
Potentially, if you're trying to, you
know, take a tactical approach. Um, but
again, it's a short, typically a short
window where markets like to look
through. Well, that last shutdown, that
was 34, 35 days in the end. What kind of
impact did that have on Wall Street and
the economy? Um, very little because the
macroeconomic factors, right, were
really important. The other thing that's
critical here is that it was a partial
shutdown. It wasn't a full shutdown. So
in 2013 we had a full shutdown and I
think the estimate from the CBO is that
they lost about 24 billion or so in
productivity.
In 2018, even though it was a double the
length, right, twice as long or more of
a shutdown, they only lost 11 billion, 3
billion net at the end of the day after
everyone was made whole. So even with
that length of time, there could be, you
know, a variety, right, of factors that
could impact growth. The conversation
I'm hearing out of Washington yesterday,
today, this morning, talking to people
is obviously the government is shutting
down. It's the length. What are you
thinking about in terms of how long the
government will be shut down? So when
we're thinking about the political
factors here, right, with the Democrats,
they are taking a stand.
Earlier this year when Schumer came to
the table and they passed the CR, there
was a large outcry within the Democratic
electorate, right, upset that they moved
so quickly. So I think it does behoove
them from a voter standpoint, right, of
speaking to their base to actually hold
a firm line. Then they have to balance
that with pressures that could
potentially come from the White House.
They were calling for mass layoffs.
That's likely not to happen. But other
areas that could be a catalyst is
potentially, you know, apportionment
control, meaning that the president
could deny a transfer of funds post or
during, right, this shutdown as
essentially a catalyst opportunity to
look under the hood and see where they
can cut.
>> Why has that been the shift in focus
away from possibly some sort of mass
layoff program and more just shifting
where money goes in the government? So
we look at what happened with DOD. They
were largely unsuccessful, right? They
were able to get some cuts through.
There was such significant power within
the
federal unions, right, protecting status
of workers and the legal response,
right, was essentially a significant
pushback. They don't want to run into
that sort of hurdle again. So I think
it's more of an issue of which agencies,
which programs, which departments are
ideologically aligned with the president
and could those areas actually be in
trouble if they choose to withhold
funds? Okay, so let's talk specifics.
What are the areas that could possibly
see reductions in funding? What are the
areas that could potentially see
increases in funding as soon as the next
few weeks if there is some sort of
shutdown? I mean, you could see some
risk. I mean, this is pretty high-level
and widespread. It's already happening,
right, on the DEI front. That's likely
to continue. They could also look at
anything that's clean energy related.
You could maybe see some impacts to EPA.
And then the other areas that I think
are critical is that on the, you know,
Medicaid healthcare front. They're
continuing to want to clamp down,
especially on those ACA subsidies that
the Democrats are looking forward to
extending.
Do they get that? That's the big
question. What's the off-ramp?
The off-ramp here, I think, is if you
start getting really notable, aggressive
activity from the White House, and then
that could move the Democrats forward.
Because there's significant amount of,
you know, programs that they don't want
to lose and they want to make sure that
they're support outside of ACA
subsidies. Right now, this is their
bargaining chip. This is the thing that
they want to get a win on. If they can't
get that and everything else starts to
see this, you know, you start to see the
train go off the tracks in other ways,
that could be the catalyst that gets the
Democrats to the table.
>> President yesterday was talking about
rural healthcare policy and how
potentially that is one place where they
can come to an agreement. Is this where
the off-ramp will be though? It will be
in the healthcare policy sector. If
Democrats get a concession, that's their
off-ramp. The other the other piece that
I'm talking about is the stick off-ramp,
right, that if the White House says,
"No, we're not negotiating with you.
We're not giving you those subsidies."
Then you have to come to the table cuz
we're going to cut other things, right?
And it's more of a fear tactic. Now, on
the ACA and
rural healthcare component,
when you're looking at red states, rural
red states, they're most reliant on ACA.
They didn't do Medicaid expansion. So
the Medicaid rollbacks don't really
impact them. So it is really all about
ACA subsidy extension and that is an
area where you do get bipartisan
consensus. Taking a step back and
looking at some of the macro
implications, not clear what the
longer-term macro implications are for
bond yields based on just sort of this
broader sense that it is an essentially
an economic issue. You do see though
longer term an impact on the dollar.
There has been a weaker dollar
associated with shutdowns. Do you expect
that to be correlation that continues
this time around? Um, yes, this is a
historical, you know, relationship. One
of the things that we want to note
though is that the ex- the length of
time, right, is going to impact that how
weak it goes, right? So if we get a
week, that's going to be very different
than if we get another 35-day window.
Monica, good to see you. Thanks for
being here. Monica Guerra there of
Morgan Stanley. No idea how long this
lasts. Please you brought up gold. It's
having a massive month. I think that's
taking the temperature of government
dysfunction not just in America, but
worldwide across Europe and elsewhere.
>> Yeah, for those who say, "Well, the euro
is going to gain against the dollar."
Then there's France. And people say,
"Well, just kidding." At the same time,
you're right. Gold is the barometer of
international developed market
dysfunction. And that is the only place
that people have found as a reliable
haven. It is fascinating to see the
correlation as long as this goes on, how
much more gold surges.
>> There's risks in the Middle East, gold
goes up. There's concerns about if
France's government's collapsing, gold
goes up. Fear about government shutdown
in the United States, gold goes up.
Gold is going up even if the S&P 500 is
going up. It is place basically become
this absolute risk-free bet that
everyone wants in their portfolio.
>> piece of this is absolutely critical.
The Europeans are still flirting with
the idea of taking frozen Russian
assets. Then that's a massive piece of
the gold move we've seen over the past
few years.
>> This is driven by central banks. We
should put that in a perspective. The
amount of buying from central banks,
particularly from places like Russia,
like China, that want to diversify away
from the dollar has been a big driver of
it. But everybody is getting on the
train. Everyone that comes on, they say,
"Well, you know, privately, I'm doing it
for myself. I've got gold bars in my
closet." But for clients, I can't really
recommend that as a massive hedge. But
you hear that more and more. I don't
have any gold bars in my closet. So, if
you're looking to come to my apartment
>> Neither do I. I'm looking for Don't even
look because it's not going to help you.
It was a seismic move for the Biden
administration to freeze those frozen
assets. And the Russian Central Bank was
thinking, "Well, we can't buy dollars
anymore. Can we buy euros? What can we
actually buy that we think is going to
be safe?" And not just the Russians did
it. You see the Chinese doing it. You
see other governments do that because
they think it's the only real safe place
to go when the US government basically
is showing that they can just freeze all
of your assets on drop of a dime.
>> Have we had the tour of Fort Knox yet? I
asked about that.
>> What's going on with that?
I think it's just a conspiracy theory.
But
I would love to get a tour of Fort Knox.
But the Treasury Secretary said on this
program or on this table that if any
senator wants a tour, so maybe I need to
write my senator and say, "Can I come
along for a tour of Fort Knox with the
>> that the gold's there or not? Well, I
know that the value is supposedly
surging to record highs. So, there you
go. I mean, that was a Wasn't there a
story yesterday about that?
>> now, yeah.
>> Yeah, exactly. So, we've got a trillion
dollars. We can monetize that, pay back
the debt.
>> Well, what this government could do is
market gold to its actual value. Change
it. That would be, as you say, trillions
of dollars to add on their balance
sheet.
>> Gold right now pulling back from
all-time highs, but down about 0.6% up
on the month by something like double
digits. Coming up on the program, Vina
Krishna of Barclays saying the AI bubble
concerns are overblown. Plus, Yuhara has
your morning movers. Wolfspeed soaring
as the firm is set to emerge from
chapter 11 bankruptcy. That stock is up
by 16%.
[Music]
Heading towards a fifth month of gains
on the S&P 500, the longest monthly
winning streak since last September. As
we close out the month of September,
equity futures down by 2/10 of 1% on the
S&P. On the Nasdaq down by 0.1. On the
Russell down by 0.3. In the bond market,
2-year, 10-year, 30-year, 2-year totally
unchanged on the morning. On the month
as well. This debate at the Federal
Reserve is becoming clearer. If you
thought this was a one-way trip to
another rate cut, two, three, four, five
of them, the debate of the week, the Fed
speak we've seen, I don't think
indicates that at all. The problem is is
it's a debate on the Fed is ideological.
It has nothing to do with actually the
data unless the data comes in decisively
in one direction or another. Right now,
there is a bias to cut unless there is
evidence of inflation to the other side.
You are seeing that inflation if you
look at it in certain places. So, the
question is which data do you
prioritize? And that continues to be the
question.
>> like some data this week. Maybe payrolls
Friday. Let's see if we get that. As we
count you down to the opening bell about
two hours away at 7:30 Eastern time with
your morning movers. Here's Yuhara. Hi
Yuhara. Hi John. We start with
Wolfspeed, a company that has been in
the doldrums after piling up billions of
dollars in debt. But today shares are
surging 17% in the premarket as the
chipmaker completes its bankruptcy
restructuring, slashing debt by 70% and
cutting its annual interest costs by
60%. That gives the company a little bit
of breathing room as it tries to refocus
on its core semiconductor business.
Meanwhile, we have shares of EchoStar
also rising now 8% in the premarket on
our reporting that Verizon is the latest
company to show interest in buying some
of its wireless spectrum. AT&T and
SpaceX have already bought and paid well
above book value. So, investors are
hoping this is another payday for
EchoStar. And we end on shares of
Semtech. They are also rising 3.8% after
Oppenheimer upgraded the stock to
outperform citing a big data center
opportunity. Analysts there see that its
active copper cables could start
grabbing market share as soon as the
next quarter. And they expect Alphabet
to be a first major adopter. Oppenheimer
setting a price target of $81, which
represents about a 26%
gain from these levels. John. Yuhara,
thank you. Appreciate the update. More
from Yuhara in about an hour from now.
And all right now this morning, the US
moving closer to a government shutdown
with bipartisan talks at the White House
ending without resolution. Democrats and
Republicans blaming each other for the
stalemate. Government funding set to
expire at midnight tonight. Elsewhere,
Delta Airlines CEO Ed Bastian expecting
most US carriers to lose money this
year. Bastian saying premium seats and a
resurgence in business travel will drive
most of Delta and United Airlines
profits for 2025. And finally, the $55
billion leverage buyout of Electronic
Arts pushing global mergers and
acquisitions activity above $1 trillion
in the third quarter. A series of mega
deals this summer bringing back hopes of
an M&A boom under the President Donald
Trump.
>> And if you were believing in that and
looking at the leverage loan issue and
so how it's at a record pace as well.
Well, Jefferies yesterday came out with
earnings, which just put the hammer on
the point, which was a record in terms
of profitability because of this
incredible rush of deals. So, people
have been saying there's a big pipeline,
there's a pipe big pipeline. And we kind
of raise an eyebrow each time. It seems
like it is coming to fruition. And that
this market is wide open. So, anyone
who's worried about easy financial
financial conditions, it seems like, at
least when it comes to M&A and debt
deals, it's pretty wide open.
>> Wall Street Journal, a number of
newspapers in the past few weeks were
talking about as well as this red-hot
market of Wall Street banks base
basically poaching bankers.
>> They're saying they see red-hot market
now. They want to pull the trigger and
they want to make sure they're ahead of
this because they see this continuing
under this presidency for the next 3 and
1/2 years.
>> This will be a major feature of the
conversation with the banks when they
report earnings in two weeks' time. JP
Morgan first of all out the gate. That's
going to be a topic of discussion in two
weeks. Yeah, how much are they ready to
pull the trigger? How much are they
going to follow Jefferies with record
advisory revenues given the fact that
you are seeing companies truly engage.
What sectors are driving this? Is it
tech M&A that's going to be driving
this? Is this media M&A? Is it being
driven by necessity or opportunity
because of the open markets right now?
These are all questions to understand
the longevity of it and whether it
indicates really a revival in economic
activity or just simply trying to
execute when the window is marginally
open.
>> The deals of financing are wide open
right now. And there's a willing
regulator down in Washington given a
green light to do a little bit more.
Some of them. That's the That's the
question also. Which deals are going to
be green-lighted and which ones aren't
going to be green-lighted? And how much
is that going to affect which deals go
through? In other words, if you think
that you're going to get a friendly
Washington, D.C., well, you might as
well pull the trigger. And if you think
not, maybe wait a couple years. Let's
talk about tech. Lisa mentioned it.
Let's turn to it. The sector continues
to drive markets higher, fueling fears
of a bubble. Vina Krishna of Barclays
saying AI fears are overblown. He
writes, "We remain constructive on AI,
but even an upward path may not be
without speed bumps." Vina joins us now
for more. Vina, good morning. Good
morning. You promised us a major
research piece. You delivered it in the
last week. Could the AI narrative
stumble? My advice to everyone out
there, reach out to the team at Barclays
to get the full note. You're putting
this out that the data contradicts some
of the ideas that have been pushed out
there at the moment. The fears of
overcapacity, oversupply. What are the
data points that contradict those fears?
I think the biggest sort of concern in
the market is are we in some sort of a
bubble,
which is a legitimate concern because
given the scale and the speed of capital
deployment right now, that is
astounding. And the problem is that the
comparisons are to the dot-com era,
which is 25 years ago.
And so, you know, what we did is
undertook an exercise in comparing who
are the biggest spenders right now,
basically the hyperscalers.
And then who was spending during that
period, which was the major telcos, the
biggest spenders.
Of course, you also had
a smaller companies which were using the
high-yield market, the convertible bond
market at that time tapping.
And there's a problem there because
those companies which were tapping those
markets in the telco space didn't have
revenues. In fact, the revenue to debt
ratio was 100 to 1, right? Debt to
revenue ratio. But the ones who were
spending, the larger companies,
they were also increasing leverage. So,
their credit quality was deteriorating.
And if you compare to what is happening
right now by a series of financial
metrics, whether they look at spending
relative to sales
or whether you look at
the margin profile of companies who are
spending,
it's very, very different. Or the amount
of leverage deployed, the leverage
deployed right now is minuscule compared
to that period of time.
Now, operating expenses are increasing
even for the big spenders right now, but
what's interesting is because of the
diversified businesses, their revenues
are growing at a faster clip than their
operating expenses. So, our view is that
this, you know, threat is something
worth paying attention to. It is very
important. But comparisons to certainly
that bubble period is sort of it's not
it's not the right comparison. I'm
pleased you bring this up because I
struggle with the dot-com comparisons as
well. I understand the need for a
benchmark on Wall Street. You want
something to compare to. But continuing
to compare it to the most extreme period
of valuations in arguably financial
history, I'm not sure it's a
particularly useful exercise. What do
you think is a credible threat to what
is happening right now? What's a decent
example of saying, "Okay, it's not that,
but it could be problematic." I think
the credible threat is in the next, I
would say, 12 to 18 months, the spending
is intact because they have the capital,
they're committed, and the race is on.
Uh but but if you take a step back and
based on the work we have done, there
are some real constraints. For example,
the power wall being hit. In other
words, you can build all the data
centers you want, but the power
constraint is quite acute already. So,
that could be a problem. The second is
what if, you know, the
the
you know, the models are no longer
incrementally as powerful like GPT-5
wasn't as strong as was only an
incremental improvement. And what if the
other efficiencies, you know, pick up in
rest of compute such that you don't need
as much compute power. So, the demand
wall can be hit as well. And third, of
course, given the scale of spending,
funding, right? Right now, finally, even
though their operating cash flows are
massive, and they're spending 50/50 on
buybacks and capital spending, but they
are turning to the debt capital markets
as well.
To fund some of the DC growth, which
means that as this keeps gaining
momentum, the funding will become a
bigger and bigger issue.
And and it's not an issue right now, but
it could. So, that's the reason why I
think
our home main point is the theme is real
and in the in the near term, right? 18
months, we're in good shape. But does
not mean that you don't pay attention to
what can go wrong because a lot can go
wrong. I would say the power wall is
probably biggest constraint, which which
can start
raining in the amount of capital spend.
And we've looked at the scenarios,
right? What if capital spending goes
down 20%, which, by the way, may not may
not sound as as huge, but when you
compare it to the fact that
consensus expects capital expenditure
increase 30% over the next two to three
years, 20 is a big decline.
What you find fascinatingly is that the
earnings impact is relatively modest.
Call it about 3 to 4%. But the bigger
impact we think comes on valuations.
That could be a 10 to 13% impact. So,
when you combine that, we're talking
about 15 plus percent impact even for a
20% decline in capital spending on on AI
over the next two years. We're
definitely going to be talking more
about that energy constraint going
forward because it is something that we
keep talking about. Bloomberg put out a
great piece talking about how globally
data centers are expected to consume
more than 4% of electricity worldwide,
which would make it the fourth biggest
in electricity use behind China, the US,
and India. So, definitely something to
watch. I do wonder about everyone
outside of the big magnificent 10,
magnificent whatever number you want to
put in there that are actually large
enough. I love this quote from Warren
Buffett, "Nothing sedates rationality
like large doses of effortless money."
This comes from Kevin Gordon,
who highlighted it in a recent report.
At what point are the other
sort of smaller companies that are
getting money thrown at them for just
saying the word AI part of something
that feels a little bit different than
the very solid story you just told? I
think it's already spread. So, one of
the things we found in our work is that
the AI exposure is really not so much
with hyperscalers right now because they
have the financial wherewithal, but a
good chunk, I would estimate roughly 20%
of S&P companies are actually 1,500 if
you look at, are benefiting. So, these
are in the energy, in the power, in
parts of industrials, in parts of tech
outside the big tech. So, all of them to
varying extent are benefiting from AI.
But two things that you gives me a
little bit of comfort. One is these
companies are not including in their
guidance the amount of AI-related
revenue pick up quite substantially. In
other words, the the guidance is
somewhat de-risked for these companies.
So, that is
that is quite important. So, and if you
look at the scale of revenues right now,
the AI-related revenues are growing much
faster, but at a much smaller component
of their overall revenues. So, so from
that standpoint, the risk is not that
dramatic even though it's there.
Though, I would say this though, at the
same time,
what we have looked the amount of
euphoric behavior in the equity markets
is extremely high right now. In fact,
beginning of the year, our derivatives
team created and launched a euphoria
index in equities.
And that has clearly been going up and
up
after the A since the AI bubble
I won't call it a bubble, spending
picked up quite dramatically. So, just
quickly, does that make you less
optimistic for valuations or does that
mean you ride this euphoria for as long
as you can?
I think you have to pick your spots.
Riding it through the hyperscalers who
have the capital wherewithal, whose
valuations have actually come down, and
who keep earning into their multiples, I
still think is a safe way to do. Outside
of that, there are enough names where
the revenue, the earnings impact is
minimal, but the valuation impact is
quite high. You want to stay away from
it. So, one thing we are talking about
is that because we do expect speed bumps
to buy protection
outside the hyperscalers on on this side
of call it 100 names which are exposed,
buy where there are cheap puts to buy
some hedging
because it's not going to be a linear
path. Venu, it's good to see you. Thanks
for sharing this report with us. We
appreciate it. Venu Krishna there of
Barclays. We talked lots about the
amount of paper that's moved over the
last month or so. How much debt has been
issued? Take a listen to these numbers
from the team here at Bloomberg.
Investment grade and high yield note
sales respectively topping 200 billion
and 50 billion for just the fifth month
ever with both markets logging their
busiest ever Septembers. Leveraged loan
launches setting a quarterly record and
about 4.5 billion dollars shy of
reaching 400 billion for the first time.
Yeah, you've seen all-in borrowing costs
go down to something like 6 and a 6 and
a half percent on average for all high
yield bond high yield bond companies
and something well below that for
investment grade at a time where the
market's also wide open from the private
credit's funding. So, this isn't just
coming in the public markets where we
can measure it, but beyond as well. With
those markets wide open, people looking
to put money to work, the golden age of
income has to be made somewhere. Or the
golden age of issuing debt. At least for
the month of September so far.
Let's give you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg Brief. Let's cross over for
Vanya Quinn. Hey Vanya. Hey John, thank
you. President Trump ordered 10% tariffs
on imports of softwood timber and
lumber. Also, a 25% duty on kitchen
cabinets, vanities, and upholstered
furniture. These tariffs said to apply
from October 14th, though some increases
are targeted to take effect next year.
Trump said the planned actions aim to
shore up the domestic manufacturing.
Charlie Javice has been sentenced to 7
years in prison and millions of dollars
in restitution for defrauding JP Morgan.
Javice was convicted in March for faking
user data in a $175 million acquisition
of a student finance startup named
Frank.
She remains free on bail during her
appeal. Javice's lawyers and JP Morgan
declined to comment on the sentence.
The 2025 MLB post-season starts today
with the best-of-three wild card series
kicking things off. The New York Yankees
will take on their long-time rivals, the
Boston Red Sox, in game one tonight at
6:00 p.m. Eastern right here in New
York. As for the Mets owner, Steven
Cohen, he issued an apology to fans
yesterday after the Mets failed to reach
the playoffs. That is your Bloomberg
Brief, John.
Vanya, thank you. Story construction,
painful, isn't it? It's like the Yankees
this and then that line. As for the
Mets.
>> I'm sorry. I'm hiding. I'm under the
desk. I don't want to hear it.
As for the Mets. Honestly, it's a
travesty how much money they spent on
that and the lack of showing. They just
Steven apologized, hasn't he? He did
apologize. What's he supposed to do? Now
what? I mean, honestly, it's like the
curse of the Mets.
>> his apology? I mean, honestly, it was a
painful night and all I could say is I
mean, why are we spending more time on
this? Talk about your Yankees.
Up next on the program, the economy and
the Mets at a crossroads.
We have weakness in the economy. The
economy is on two very different paths.
You've got a reaccelerating economy and
now you throw on rate cuts, which
normally never happens.
That conversation up next with the CEO
of Citizens Financial Group, Bruce Van
Saun. From New York City, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Equity futures on the S&P soft to hear
by a tenth of 1%. On the Nasdaq 100,
we're down by a tenth of 1% also. On the
Russell, negative by 0.3. Underneath
this morning, the economy at a
crossroads.
We have weakness in the economy. The
economy is on two very different paths.
Tariffs, of course, are eating into the
lower end consumer goods, into, you
know, things like food and beverages
that already have outstripped
cumulatively inflation since COVID. Now
you add on tariffs. It's a clear strain
on the weaker part of the economy, and
they need the rate cuts. You've got a
re-accelerating economy, and now you
throw on rate cuts, which normally never
happens. So here's the latest this
morning, Wall Street
waiting on a busy week of economic data.
Investors looking for signals the US
economy is heading back towards stable
growth or volatility and higher
inflation. Bruce Van Saun is the CEO of
Citizens Financial Group, which serves
approximately 6 million consumer and
business customers. Bruce joins us now
for more. Bruce, good morning. Good to
see you. Well, great to be here.
>> Did we say happy anniversary? 12th
anniversary?
Uh yeah, it's 12 years. It's a 12 years
has flown by. You've got to read on both
the consumer and businesses as well. We
talked a lot about corporate confidence,
the M&A, the boom, things picking up.
Consumer confidence still held back.
What do you see across the business, a
difference between the two?
Uh I'd say we're in generally good
shape. So um I think everybody's still a
little holding back because of the
uncertainty around tariffs and some of
the fiscal policies, uh but that's
become the new normal. And so I think
businesses now are leaning in a little
more, um and I'd say consumers split. So
the higher end consumer is still
enjoying life, sees the stock market
very strong, uh spending money. Uh a
little more pressure at the lower end.
Uh inflation still is persistent, and
real wage gains haven't fully covered
that. So they're pulling in a little
bit.
>> What opportunities are available to you
and the team right now to lean into that
higher end consumer just a little bit
more, higher income, the private side of
the business?
>> Yeah, so one of the uh moves that we
made a couple years back was uh we tried
to buy all of First Republic. Uh JPM
ultimately was successful, uh but we
hired a lot of the talent. A lot of the
private bankers came over to Citizens.
Uh hired 150 folks on day one, uh and
then we've ramped that up now to close
to 500 people. Uh we're crossed 10
billion of uh deposits, and we're going
to
target at year end hitting 12 billion in
deposits, 11 billion of AUM. So the
business is basically exploding uh in
terms of new customers coming onto the
platform. I think we're delivering
really good quality service at this
point. And we're integrating that with
our commercial bank. So a lot of our
middle market companies or successful
people, uh they have uh families in need
of both business services on the
commercial side, and then individual
banking and wealth services for uh the
family and for the for the individuals.
Uh and so we bring that together to
provide really robust solutions, and I
think we're doing that better than
anybody in the market these days. Can
you give a sense of just the rapid rate
of growth and what you see over the
next, say, couple of years in terms of
that wealth management sector that's
been driving growth or had been driving
growth at a lot of the major banks?
Yeah, so one of the things we said is
that uh by this year that that business
would be 5% accretive to our bottom
line. So it's basically a startup inside
of a 200-year-old bank. Uh and so we had
all the expenses day one, and now
revenues are kind of exceeding those
expenses, and we'll be uh well over 5%
of the bottom line this year. And you
play that out 3 to 5 years, this
business could be 15% of our bottom
line. So
uh anyway, we're we're kind of
continuing to be
uh
finding the sweet spot spot between
growing it at a nice clip, but growing
it profitably. So one of the issues that
First Republic had is their return on
equity never got above 11%. We're
running this business today between 20
and 25%.
So we have good operating discipline on
this thing. Uh as we continue to grow,
then we reinvest back into businesses.
We're opening up new regions. We opened
Southern California. We're going to
expand in Florida, put more teams here
in New York. Tonight, in fact, we're
opening our flagship private bank office
on 52nd and 6th. Uh so really exciting
times and a great initiatives that our
our team is executing very well on. It's
amazing how many uh points of contact
you have to gauge consumer and business
sentiment as John was talking about. I
just wonder, what is the sort of
feeling, not just about investors,
people who are trying to manage their
wealth, is it risk on, is it risk off,
but also the companies in terms of are
they moving past that waiting pattern,
the holding pattern that we were talking
about earlier this year?
>> Yeah, I'd say they're not fully leaning
in yet. So we're not seeing our our
credit lines that we have out with
companies uh really being taken down to
invest in growth, in CapEx, and things.
But having said that, all of our
businesses are having very strong years.
So cash flow is good. Businesses are
solid. We see no real credit issues.
Uh I think with a little more certainty,
they'd be leaning in more, and they'd be
doing more investing. So I think that's
still to come. The good news is on the
private equity side, on the kind of
financial uh sponsor side, there's a
there's now a a
kind of tick up in deal flow, which
we've been waiting for over 3 years to
see that. And so our uh commercial bank
has been positioned for this to happen.
We've really invested in it. Got great
people,
uh and so I think you're we're having a
great quarter in terms of our capital
markets revenues. Uh the deal machine is
going, the flywheel's going.
Uh so I think that'll continue. So that
feels really good. So the corporate side
has a little bit to catch up, but the
financial sponsor side, that's ticking
up very nicely. You mentioned Florida.
How much wealth have you seen move down
from Florida? But you're still doubling
down on New York, and I wonder if you
have concerns about the
>> mayor race.
>> it's interesting. So uh we we're uh
focused big on three regions right now
for growth. One is the New York metro.
So we bought HSBC's
uh East Coast branches uh to get a
foothold in New York. Uh we bought
Investors Bank, so we now have 200
branches in New York City. We've uh
invested in middle market banking teams
here, so we're really gaining market
share in New York. The other two
regions, one is Florida, as you
mentioned, and one is California. So we
now have over 300 people in both
locations. Uh and uh Florida has a lot
of tailwind. Uh during COVID, a lot of
people moved down to Florida. Uh that's
continuing, uh and so we started with a
private banking team in Florida, and now
we've added middle market, so we have
both corporate and private bank working
together. Uh that's a that's a market
where we don't have a lot of retail yet.
So in New York, we have the full ground
game with the retail. Florida, I say
that we're coming in over the top of
that market to really bank successful
people. Same thing in California, over
300 people there. Uh coming in over the
top. We have private banking teams. We
have corporate banking teams,
uh and seeing a lot of growth there as
well. Bruce, it's good to see you.
Thanks for the update. Appreciate it.
Thank you, sir. Bruce Van Saun there,
the Citizens Financial Group CEO. I'm
going to say this for Bruce, maybe a
blessing in disguise not getting hold of
First Republic, but getting hold of the
talent instead. He didn't have to pay
the price, but he got the business, and
that seems to be playing out. Up next on
the program, Julie Biel of Cain Anderson
Rodnick, Jason Bazinet of Citi, David
Sief of Nomura, Mark Haefele of UBS from
New York City. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance up next.
[Music]
The market continues to make new highs.
Higher productivity supports higher
valuations.
>> The market clearly is pricing in a
decent amount of expectation for forward
growth. Let's not just focus on the
expectations, but also about the market
action. You need to put your money
somewhere. And the reality is the US is
the only place where you can actually
put scale. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Ferro, Lisa
Abramowicz, and Anne Marie Hoordern.
I'm going to say this about 10 times in
the next 24 hours. I cannot believe Q4
is literally around the around the
corner. Three more months to go for
2025, 6 months since Liberation Day.
Where has that time gone? From New York
City this morning, good morning. The
third hour of Bloomberg Surveillance
starts right now with equity futures on
the S&P negative by 2/10 of 1% on the
S&P. On the Nasdaq, we're down by a
10th. On the Russell, we're down by a
third. In the bond market, 2s, 10s, 30s
look like this. Your 2-year bond yield
down a basis point. Likewise on 10s,
4.129 on a 10-year maturity. And a week
ahead looks like this, too. It's full of
economic data. Even if we don't get
payrolls, we'll get a whole lot more.
ISMs, PMIs, jolts coming up a little bit
later this morning. Yeah, you framed
this really well. Everything has
changed, nothing has changed heading
into the third quarter heading into the
fourth quarter. Given the fact, I can't
even believe it is fourth quarter. Uh
given the fact that the economic data is
still a Rorschach test, you're still
seeing the sort of is this an economy
that's re-accelerating, or is this an
economy that really needs accommodation?
The data's going to be key, because
ultimately, we are not going to get
probably a lot of the key uh points that
the Fed looks at. So ADP, jolts later
this morning, ISM manufacturing, how
much will that really provide the
temperature that the Fed has to work
with?
>> I think the thing for ourselves over the
last month is this market has moved on.
It's looking ahead to 2026, and has done
throughout the whole of the summer. It's
looking for a re-acceleration, believing
that the worst of the data is behind us.
And I think you're starting to see that.
Companies have moved on, too. I
mentioned April, 6 months since
Liberation Day. Do you remember that
line from Jim Saxton of Apollo, macro
paralysis? That's no longer the story
for corporate America. You see that in
mergers and acquisitions. We've talked
about the leveraged buyout of yesterday.
You see it in the debt issuance, high
yield, investment grade, leveraged loan.
Companies are financing themselves.
They're investing in things. They're
moving on. Yeah, and Jefferies, which
came out and usually is a bellwether for
the investment banking sector, came out
yesterday with an unprecedented revenue
for their advisory business because of
that mergers and acquisitions activity.
It is clear that companies have more
confidence. Whether consumers also
reflect that confidence in being able to
absorb what will inevitably be higher
prices this Christmas shopping season,
that's the key. And even CEOs are not
sure of that. And this goes to the
question of is the Fed looking at the
same economy that is driving the
profitability and the success of a lot
of these companies, or they're two
different economies that are kind of
moving in very different speeds. What we
saw in the first half of the year is
pull forward effect. Companies are might
not be able to do that anymore. At the
same time, the actual tariff impact
might actually start to hit them and the
president continues to levy some of
these penalties as we saw overnight and
from Kelly and Shaw there's going to be
a dozen more when it comes to sector
specific. And next year, they're going
to have to figure out how to either
diversify their supply chain even more
or push more of this cost onto the
consumer.
>> That's the process, not a one-off event
and that process is ongoing. I'm with
you though, Bremo. The risk that this
does start to bite. I mentioned Nathan
Sheets of City. He's talked about it,
too, that it will start to bite into
year-end. That you will start to see
those higher prices. You will start to
see those changes. Yeah, how offsides is
this market? The idea of an earnings
report that comes out and shows that
either companies are not absorbing the
prices, that you're seeing the hits to
the margins in order to offset that, or
that some of the demand is falling off
in select areas. Not to mention an AI
giant coming out and saying orders
aren't as robust and then the the moon's
going to fall, but
>> That is all on the table. Yeah, then
basically you're going to see this
massive
and we're going to come here and say,
"I'm sorry."
>> With the sound effects. All right.
Something like that.
>> counterpoint right now, I think, comes
from Neil Dutta on all of this. I
understand all the enthusiasm. I'm right
there with you. I hope things get better
for 2026. Neil's point is if companies
really believe in that right now,
where's the hiring? That's why the jobs
report's so key this week. Yeah, the one
caveat to that, and this is what a lot
of people have raised, including some of
Fed officials, you don't understand or
we don't understand the total
ramification of artificial intelligence
and how much that is acting in lieu of,
say, a new hire that could potentially
go through your lists, maybe go through
your schedule. I mean, you can get an AI
assistant to do that. So, how much is
that factoring in? How much is this that
companies really just are not expanding?
It's probably something of both of them.
That's my guess.
>> the Fed chair, also,
if he doesn't know where the break-even
rate is for the labor market, then how
does he know what is a good and a bad
jobs number? And I think we're all
wrestling with that into Friday.
>> Yeah, I think that no one has any
answers, which is the reason why you
just see steady yields, because why vary
from something when you have absolutely
no conviction.
>> And equities keep grinding higher for
another month. Lower this morning by
2/10 of 1%. This morning, this hour,
we'll catch up with Judy Beal of Cain
Anderson Rudnick as stocks trade near
all-time highs. Jason Bazinet of Citi as
he calls the timing of the EA EA buyout
surprising. And David Seat of Nomura as
investors await a fresh round of payroll
data later this week. We'll begin this
hour with stocks on track for five
straight months of gains as we close out
September. Judy Beal of Cain Anderson
Rudnick writes in the following, "The
strength of earnings, even outside tech,
tells us the ingenuity and resilience of
corporate America remains strong. And
that's great for the long term." Judy
joins us now for more. Judy, welcome
back to the program. Should we just
stick with what's working? Because
what's working is working well.
I I think that what's working in terms
of what's actually delivering earnings
growth should probably continue to do
that. I think companies where you see a
lot of speculation that AI is going to
be able to reflate and really create a
lot of business for them, that still
feels very speculative to me. You know,
I think we talk about, "Yes, we're in
the age of AI." Why am I still filling
out paperwork when I go to the doctor's
office, right? Why is Outlook still
completely unable to pull up any email
that I request? I think there's still a
lot of just regular innovation that
still needs to parse through this
system. I agree that AI is going to be
transformational, but the way that it
actually filters through our economy is
limited by us as human beings to adapt.
And at least for me, that's not always
great, to be honest.
>> short your doctor's office. So, can you
tell me what's publicly traded where
that pockets of speculative fervor
actually are at the moment?
I think you see it in some of the small
cap names, some of the crypto names. It
still remains to be seen how these
business models are really going to make
money over the long term, especially
when we're talking about an asset that's
as speculative as crypto. So, I think
that there are places, even in the power
generation side, where, you know, those
businesses are still utilities. They
still are governed and regulated and
it's not easy for me to see how they're
going to suddenly be able to generate
the capacity profitably without it
negatively impacting us as ratepayers.
So, there are pockets kind of throughout
that I think we can really see there's
too much speculation and the valuation
has run too fast. What's the trigger,
Julie, to understand that maybe markets
will come to grips with what you're
talking about, that maybe valuations
have outpaced the capacity to adapt as
quickly as some people are expecting?
I I think that it, you know, any kind of
tech transition that we have goes in
fits and starts. I agree with your
previous guest that the telecom boom is
not necessarily the best way to compare
this wave. However, what we did see in
the telecom boom was a level of
overbuilding before we really needed all
of that capacity. That is something that
I do think is relevant to today, that we
are building the level of capacity that
we are, and that corporations are still
only in the experimental phase. Just
like I was in the experimental phase in
college, right? Same It takes time to
really figure out who you are. But I
think what's really relevant and needs
to be understood is that we can still
build ahead. We can still have a lot of
capacity growth ahead, and AI can still
be extremely relevant and existential.
It just means that it's going to move in
fits and starts. We can all agree that
if there's any kind of hiccup in the
mega cap, that that's going to be
problematic for the whole market. But I
even think at the margin, you know, with
the marginal player, some of the, even
let's say, the disservice delivery
models, some of the consulting firms. I
think if you see weakness there, that's
going to be an early indication that
we're in the kind of air pocket of
earnings that I would expect over a long
10-year cycle transition.
>> It seems like everyone who comes on the
show, Julie, is incredibly bullish, at
least for the medium term when it comes
to equity performance, let alone the AI
transition. Are you pushing back against
that? Are you more bearish? Are you
expressing this in actually selling some
of those names, or is it just marginally
shifting some of the investments away
from the highest flyers?
I I think that you can continue to own
mega cap tech because most of those
businesses by themselves are just
unregulated monopolies. AI is only
helping Meta do better in terms of its
ad sales. So, to me, it makes sense to
have an investment in that company, not
even necessarily on the hope that their
AI is going to be a massive business. I
think they've already integrated it in a
way that where they can generate a lot
of real earnings, and that makes sense.
Where it's more marginal, where it's
more speculative, where you have had a
really large gap in the multiple, that's
the place where I would have the most
hesitation because I just don't think
the earnings durability is going to be
there for the next 10 years. I think
those businesses have great prospects
over a 10-year horizon, but most
investors don't have that kind of
patience. Julie, you talk about tariffs
in your note how they are bridge, but is
the foundation a good one? How are you
thinking about the reciprocal country
tariffs versus what we got overnight,
which is more sectoral tariffs on the
likes of lumber and kitchen cabinets?
Yeah, I think that there is more firm
legal footing for the Trump
administration to be doing some of these
sectoral tariffs, even if APA is
completely ruled null and void by the
Supreme Court, which is, I think, a
50/50 chance. There are stronger legal
footings. There are three paths that the
the Trump administration can pursue for
tariffs. I think that when you see the
level of complexity that's being layered
into our system, that creates its own
kind of friction and difficulty in being
able to pull back from those tariffs.
And I think most economists would agree
that creating a government that's overly
levered and overly reliant on tariffs
isn't a great
first put in, but they criticized them
well ahead of time. So, do companies
need to think about these tariffs that
even if there was a changing of an
administration 2028, that they're here
to stay for the long haul?
That is my concern. I I My concern is
that it's really hard when you are
unwilling to do the hard work of rolling
up your sleeves to pull back on
entitlements or figure out how to get us
on stronger financial footing, are you
really going to turn down huge chunks of
of revenue that have sort of already
passed through the system and people
have already adjusted to? I don't think
so. I think it's hard to really walk
away from some of that revenue, even if
it economically makes more sense to do
so for the long term. Judy, appreciate
your take, as always. Judy Beal there of
Cain Anderson Rudnick. That final point,
I think, is an important one.
The systemic risk, maybe that's too
much. The financial risk associated with
tariffs now, I think it's real. The fact
of the matter is that this is a huge
source of revenue for the government.
I'm pleased you brought it up. And it's
very unlikely to be repealed by
successive governments because they're
going to depend on it. And ultimately,
we've heard from people in the bond
market now who have said this was a bond
negative story in April, who now believe
it's a bond positive story six months
later. It's a bond positive story
because of the revenue coming in. Is it
a bond positive story because of how
much it slows growth? That is a question
that a lot of people are going to ask.
And ultimately, we haven't seen that
aspect of this, but that will matter
more to the equity side of whether they
wake up to tariffs as a negative or
whether it's a positive and it brings
business back, particularly for domestic
producers. Stocks are down this morning
by just 2/10 of 1%. Let's take the
opportunity to get you an update on news
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Vanya Quinn. Hey, Vanya. Hey,
John. Thank you.
The US is likely headed for a government
shutdown. Senate Republican Majority
Leader John Thune said Democrats'
refusal to approve a short-term spending
bill amounts to hostage taking.
Democratic Senator Chuck Schumer said
Democrats could settle for some of their
priorities such as extending subsidies
for Affordable Care Act premiums.
Spotify CEO Daniel Ek is stepping down
after nearly two decades at the helm of
the streaming giants. Ek, who founded
the company in 2006, will transition to
the role of executive chairman.
Spotify's co-presidents Alex Nordstrom
and Gustav Söderström will become
co-CEOs effective January 1st. The
change comes after the company reported
its full first year of profitability.
And OPEC bosses said to discuss
fast-tracking its latest round of supply
hikes. A delegate tells Bloomberg the
hikes would happen in three monthly
installments of about 500,000 barrels a
day in a bid to recoup market share.
Crude prices and oil stocks are moving
lower on the news. That is your
Bloomberg brief, John. Ivonne, thank
you. More from Ivonne in about 30
minutes time. Crude down on Brent and
WTI this morning. Up next on the
program, the morning calls plus Jason
Bazinet of Citi as he calls the timing
of the EA buyout surprising. That's
next. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Stocks are negative 0.2% on the S&P.
Likewise on the Nasdaq 100, the opening
bell about 1 hour 13 minutes away.
That's the price action. Let's get you
some morning calls. First up, Needham
raising its price target on Robinhood to
145 calling it the most advanced among
financial services platforms. It's the
biggest winner on the S&P so far for 25
this morning. We're down by 0.9%. Your
second call from Mizuho initiating
coverage on Meta. An outperform rating
seeing the company as best positioned
for AI. The stock is just about
unchanged this morning. And finally HSBC
downgrading Electronic Arts to hold
saying going private is a net positive
for competitor Take-Two. The stock is
positive this morning by 0.1%.
Let's stick with EA. The video game
maker going private in the largest
leverage buyout on record valuing the
company at 55 billion dollars.
Bloomberg's Ed Ludlow joins us now for
more. Ed, welcome to the show, buddy.
You're going to have to explain this to
me. Not a gamer. What's Battlefield 6?
Why is it so important? Yeah, it's so
important because the market is using
the success of Battlefield 6, which is
coming out October 10th, to justify the
premium in this deal. You know, EA has
been going sideways for quite a long
time now and it's not been able to free
itself from the domain of video games
like others have, right? If you think
about Disney or Take-Two or whatever it
may be, they have their core IP in video
games look to franchise into movies,
television. And EA's talked quite a big
game on that and never actually done it.
Um, you know, I I find the comparison
with Take-Two's opportunity here
interesting but really it's a deal where
like look at the equity piece and what
Saudi is doing anyway bigger picture in
video games and then look at the debt
piece and ask yourself historically LBOs
are where the management sees writing on
the rule wall that something's not going
well for them or the industry. Um, and
and I'm not sure which of those pull
factors is is king here. Ed, what do you
make of the characters involved in this?
Kushner, the Saudis. What do you think
of the mix? So so I I met with EA
management like earlier in the summer
and and we now know from the reporting
that this deal was being discussed then
in the spring, right? And
the the most important thing is Saudi is
the biggest piece of this. They already
had a 10% stake. They will end up with a
big equity piece. Kushner is smaller but
Kushner plays a role in bringing parties
together, right? The relationship
between some of the Middle East based
LPs um and the private equity arm of
this. Um, the debt component JP Morgan,
you know, I think that's quite recent
from what I'm hearing. Um,
but but focus on Saudi. Like Saudi is
the is the big player here. Ed,
appreciate your take and looking forward
to the program a little bit later this
morning 11:00 a.m. Eastern time
Bloomberg Technology with Ed Ludlow and
Caroline Hyde. Joining us now, Jason
Bazinet of Citi remaining neutral on EA
calling the timing of the deal
surprising. Jason, let's get to that.
Why did you find the timing so
surprising?
Well, I guess there's a couple layers to
this. Um, it wasn't like EA was out of
favor or unloved by the street. I mean,
things were going reasonably well for
the firm. The valuation I think was
quite reasonable before this offer. It
was trading right on top of its um
seven-year average about 19 times
forward earnings.
When we ran the the math on what the
returns might look like uh for the
buyers using consensus estimates,
you you we came out with sort of a low
to mid single digit IRR. And so I just
don't I don't I don't quite get what's
so compelling from the buyer's
perspective. Um, usually when we see
LBOs, yeah, we see a lean balance sheet
like EA had but usually there's some
controversy there, something that's gone
wrong with the company um that sort of
means the multiple is depressed and it
gives opportunity
for a a sponsor to come in and buy the
company. There was just no controversy
here. Is there any sort of growth path,
Jason, that EA couldn't accomplish as
remaining a public company?
I don't really think so. I mean, they
had wide berth. I mean, that there there
was a little bit of a controversy around
this Battlefield 6 launch, which is
coming out as you just mentioned. Um,
you know, that could help the multiple
if EA can demonstrate that it's not just
a
an excellent sports video game company
but a great video game company writ
large because about um little over 50%
of their revenues come from the big
sports titles. And then they have this
long list of sort of secondary and
tertiary titles, you know, Mass Effect,
Battlefield, Apex, Sims, you know, none
of them really have have busted through
the way FC has or Madden. Um, and so
that's the opportunity and maybe that's
what the buyers see is the is the
opportunity to sort of round out the
portfolio with some other big uh
franchises outside of sports. Jason, if
we zoom zoom out a little bit, we keep
talking about how there's there's this
incredible M&A activity that has been
percolating over the past few weeks and
months and I wonder how much of it is
concentrated in the media space. If
there is something specific driving
this, whether it's AI, whether it's the
risk of becoming obsolete or whether
it's trying to consolidate revenue
streams in an increasingly competitive
landscape.
Well, there's two sort of vectors. I
mean, if you think about other strategic
suitors that might be interested in this
asset, one vector would be um anyone
that owns a big cloud um sort of
infrastructure. Remember Microsoft
bought Activision a number of years ago.
Many investors and and including me
thought that that had to do with with
sort of a consumer-facing
uh gaming subscription where instead of
buying a PlayStation or an Xbox, you
just rent sort of your your processing
capacity for Microsoft cloud and get
with that some games. And so that may be
what the sponsors are thinking that they
could flip this to another big cloud
provider. The other vector is um you
know, firms like Netflix are moving into
video games.
Um, there the idea is to use the IP
potentially uh to make uh movies or TV
shows. I think this doesn't really score
particularly well because the IP, the
valuable IP that sits inside EA, are
really those um sports teams and
leagues. And uh the rights that EA has
don't really extend themselves to movies
and TV shows. You'd have to go secure
you know, separate rights from the NFL
or uh
you know, the soccer the European soccer
leagues. It just doesn't make a lot of
sense. Well, whether it's clouds or
maybe Netflix, do you do see more
consolidation in this space?
You know, I I I do. I do. Um,
but I I would say that um
streaming video companies is probably
more likely than I would say cloud if I
had to guess.
Jason, appreciate your time. Thanks for
jumping on. Jason Bazinet there of Citi.
Thank you, sir. On the latest takeout,
go private, leverage buyout, biggest
we've ever seen. Interesting mix of
characters involved in this one.
>> Yeah, Saudi Arabia among them. This
question of how much that money coming
from that nation that that sovereign
kingdom has single-handedly boosted
valuations across the sports landscape
and even the derivatives, the the games
that are associated with sports. I
wonder how much is this trying to
consolidate their ownership and
influence over just the West in general
when it comes to sports.
>> And I'm sure we'll see a lot more cuz
they want that cloud in a way. But also
Jared Kushner, who was at the I wouldn't
say press conference, press statements
because neither President Trump or Prime
Minister Netanyahu actually took a
single question, was at the peace
agreement plan rollout yesterday press
conference just a day or the few hours
after this was announced when it comes
to what's going on in EA. So it is an
interesting group of individuals behind
this entire deal. And what's your take
on his involvement in this deal and his
role
putting together the money in the Middle
East?
>> He's the bridge between I think Western
investors and some of these companies
and the big dollars in the kingdom and
potentially even even outside Saudi
Arabia across the Middle East. He has a
tremendous amount of connections there.
We saw those connections just grow
after he left Trump 1.0. Interesting to
see him alongside the Saudis yesterday
following that record deal. If you want
to just joining us, welcome to the
program. Just a flavor of the price
action for you. The opening bell about
an hour and six minutes away. Equity
futures slightly negative as we close
out Q3 and the month of September
heading towards another month of gains
on the S&P 500. This would make it month
five, the longest winning streak on a
monthly basis going back to September of
last year. On the Nasdaq, we're down
about a tenth of 1% this morning but on
the month, the Nasdaq 100 on the month
is up about 5%. We've seen small caps
outperform on the quarter, but on the
month we've seen tech start to regain
that lead. All the headlines we've seen
about various deals, deals after deals,
has really boosted these names that
dominate the S&P and the Nasdaq 100.
>> over at Charles Schwab, Kevin Gordon, as
well as others, have put together this
theory that AI-driven stocks have gained
259%
since the announcement of ChatGPT in
November 2022.
It gives you a sense of what is driving
this. So, you know, the way that you set
this up, how much has changed and how
much has stayed the same in terms of
what narratives are driving this market
independent of any economic cycles?
>> The Nasdaq just about sells off this
morning by a tenth of 1%. Coming up
shortly, we'll catch up with David Ziv
of Nomura as investors await a fresh
round of payroll data, a week full of
economic data. Later on this morning, we
get JOLTS at 10:00 a.m. Eastern time.
Tomorrow, we're waiting for ADP and ISM
manufacturing. Then onto Thursday, when
we get jobless claims. And on Friday,
we'll see if we get that payroll
support. We'll have that discussion next
on the program. Plus, your morning
movers. We're looking at Celsius rising
after an upgrade from Morgan Stanley.
That stock is up by 5%. Your morning
movers up next.
[Music]
The up and down is about 60 minutes
away. So, let's check in on the price
action cross asset. We'll start with
equities. Equity futures down by a tenth
of 1% on the S&P 500 following two days
of gains. Looking to close out another
month of gains. We're advancing for a
fifth consecutive month on the S&P 500.
On the Nasdaq this morning, up on the
month by around 5%. On the session,
we're down by around about a tenth of 1%
after big tech outperforms in a big way.
The headline just crossing and I'm going
to share it with you. Coreweave inking a
$14 billion Meta deal to supply
computing power. We've seen a series of
these headlines over the last month and
here's another one. With the latest,
let's cross over to Bloomberg's Ed
Ludlow. Ed, what have you got?
>> Yeah, $14 billion deal for Coreweave is
sizable. It's really understand what's
happening here. Coreweave is what we
call neo cloud. It's data center
capacity dedicated to either the
training or running of AI models. And
the story with Meta is exactly the same
as it is with Microsoft or Microsoft on
behalf of Open AI. They don't have the
capacity in their own clouds to handle
all of the workloads relating to AI. And
so, they basically outsource and
offload. The issue here, debt is playing
a very big part in what Coreweave is
doing to move quickly to build out the
infrastructure. They are supply
constrained and that's probably a
massive understatement. So, while
they're onboarding all of these new
deals, remember it was only last week
that they expanded their relationship
with Open AI beyond $20 billion worth of
capacity, they're in a situation where
if they have 100 units of compute,
they're having to decide which customer
to give it to. So, the headline is
severe. It will likely push Coreweave to
the upside throughout the day, but it's
still something worth paying very close
attention to. When will this come
online? How are they going to choose
whether Meta, Microsoft, or Open AI gets
first dibs on the capacity that does
come online? And how much more financing
are they going to have to do to be able
to move quickly to build that
infrastructure? But, the headline speaks
for itself. Big deal for Coreweave. Meta
building infrastructure itself also
needs some help from a third party. You
mentioned that stock Coreweave up by 7%.
Ed, you talked about Microsoft. Can you
frame for us just how dominant Microsoft
is as a customer for Coreweave? Yes,
basically single biggest. And it was
just last week that that Coreweave CEO
Michael Intrator was on The Close with
Remain and I explaining that all of
these deals that it is doing, expanding
the direct relationship with Open AI,
this new Meta deal, which we we kind of
knew on a pigeon was in the works,
diversifies away from that. But again,
it's like this curious situation which
is like you have all these servers
running,
they're already accounted for, they're
already given to customers. And so,
these are future deals. Call it
pipeline, call you what it will. But,
long-term moving away from Microsoft is
key. Ed, I just wonder who's running the
economy in America right now. If it's
Chairman Powell, Secretary Yellen, or
Jensen Huang, or Mark Zuckerberg. Yeah,
I I don't know how much you guys have
have been discussing circular financing,
Yeah.
>> but and it also kind of goes back to
what's happening in debt and M&A, right?
But, the circular financing issue is
particularly prevalent in AI
infrastructure. There's some immunity in
the debt portions that go into
infrastructure finance from the factors
of the Fed. You know, it's it's a more
direct market. But, this would be the
question had we had the opportunity to
ask Jensen Huang, how much is this
demand for Nvidia artificially inflated
by the fact that if you hand over $100
billion to a customer to then spend $100
billion on your own gear, I mean, that's
circular financing, is it not? Ed, thank
you. Ed Ludlow there of Bloomberg.
Again, look out for Ed in a few hours
time on Bloomberg Technology off the
back of this deal. Coreweave up by close
to 8%. Meta just about positive.
Coreweave signing a deal to supply Meta
with as much as $14.2 billion worth of
computing power. That's the latest on
tech. As we discuss that story, the
President of the United States just
engaging with reporters as we stare down
the barrel of a government shutdown in
this country. That's the first question
a reporter asked, is there going to be a
shutdown? How many employees, government
federal workers will be laid off? And he
said, maybe a lot. So, he's fielding
these questions as we barrel towards
that shutdown. Again, I repeat, it's not
a matter of if, it's going to be how
long. And this is going to be really
important, obviously, for the financial
community just when it comes to the
economic releases and BLS is saying,
we're not going to get any. We're not
going to get any data. Payrolls,
CPI in a few weeks time. What are we
going to do at the end of October when
the chairman of the Federal Reserve sits
around the table to talk about the
economy? They're going to talk about
peripheral data and they're going to
say, let's cut rates. And that's
essentially what people are expecting.
And right now, you're seeing the market
respond with a wide-opening financing
market and everyone piling on the bet
that right now, this is an economy
that's going to be run hot and you might
as well go along for the ride. Let's go
along for the ride and talk about what
we might not get later this week with
Reed Pickett of Bloomberg down in
Washington, D.C. Reed, welcome to the
program. We might not get payrolls on
Friday. What will we get in between?
Yes, so what we know, you know, in terms
of the govern- a government shutdown is,
you know, how long it is is really what
matters here. Um, if it's a couple days,
then um, it it matters uh very
differently than if it's a couple weeks.
Um, so when we're looking ahead, we know
from BLS, BLS has told us that they will
stop data collection, they will stop um
releasing economic reports, um that
there will likely be delays with the
reports if there is a government
shutdown. So, if there is a government
shutdown on Friday, likely to not get
that jobs report. Um, and when we're
thinking about what we will get, we will
get stuff from the private data
producers. So, um not only will we get
JOLTS today, which is from the
government while the government is still
open, um but we'll also get reports like
ADP. Also, we've seen some data service
providers like Revelio Labs come out
with their own kind of payroll estimates
as well. Um, so it'll be looking at
those types of data sets to get a sense
of where the labor market is right now.
Um, but looking forward, we have to
think a lot about data collection, too.
Um, so if a shutdown extends for several
weeks, that will impact the collection
of data for key releases like CPI. It'll
also it could also impact the collection
of data for the next jobs report. Um, so
it's not just when we'll get this data,
it's also the quality of the data going
forward. Reed, appreciate the update.
It's good to see you. Reed Pickett there
of Bloomberg down in Washington, D.C.
With us around the table here in New
York, David Ziv of Nomura. David, good
morning. Good morning.
>> Good to see you. Let's talk about this.
We've collected the data, haven't we?
The payrolls. Isn't this just a case of
putting it out there now? It does seem
like the the hard heavy lifting on this
report is probably all done at this
point and that
it is it is a matter of of choosing
whether or not to post it or not. There
may be some peripheral stuff that that
needs to happen that we don't know
about. Formatting the press release. I
mean, little things like that, but
things that actually have to happen.
Does there need to be, beyond somebody
just hitting enter to post it, a backup
tech person there just in case, as has
happened a couple of times over the past
couple of years, the BLS has some issues
with that data being posted. All of
these things lead us to think that
probably this report is not coming out
on on Friday and it's certainly why we
think the BLS said that that all data
collection will cease. This also is in
keeping with the 2013 shutdown, which
was just a couple of days before that
October 2013 labor report was due to
come out and they didn't post that one,
either. Well, there's a question not
only of whether we get the labor market
report, but how long a government
shutdown could go on and whether the Fed
will have any government data additional
to what they had during the last Fed
meeting at the one at the end of this
month or at the end of October. I'm
already shifting ahead. At the end of
October, what's your view of how much
that could influence the decision-making
deliberation at the Federal Reserve?
>> Yeah, it
the the less data that come out, the
less of a reason the Fed would have to
to deviate from the dot plot. Meaning,
the more likely it is that they will cut
exactly 25 basis points in October,
which is what the the dot plot
indicates. So, it's our it's our view
that that will happen at
whether or not they get the data. But,
the less data that come out, I mean,
what would the justification be for
saying
just six weeks ago we implied that we
would be cutting 25 basis points in
October, we have a lot less new
information that we than we had expected
to have at this point had the government
stayed open. Uh, hard to really say that
they won't go ahead and and carry out
what they had signaled in mid-September
under that situation. Does Does make you
nervous, the fact that they are going to
be cutting rates most likely
at a time where we don't have the data
necessarily, but we do have the data for
markets showing a pretty euphoric
feeling in markets, really wide opening
financing conditions, leverage being
baked into the AI trade in a new way.
Doesn't that sort of give you pause?
Well, I would say that it was there was
a somewhat somewhat of an incongruity
between
between the SEP dot plot and the
economic projections. Every economic
projection that the Fed changed in
September was something that should lead
it to be more hawkish. Higher growth,
lower unemployment, higher inflation.
That's how they changed it versus June.
And yet that was coupled with them
saying actually we're going to cut more
than than before.
We understand why they they said that.
There is fears about there are fears
about the labor market etc. But the
weakness in non-farm payrolls has been
somewhat of an outlier compared to
almost all of the other data including
in the past 2 weeks where we've seen
beats in industrial production, durable
goods, retail sales, lower than expected
jobless claims. So all of these things
make it seem like Q3 ended up in a much
stronger position than than had been
thought. At the more our tracking
estimate was just 1.4% 2 weeks ago for
Q3 GDP and now it's up to 3.0% and so
more than a doubling of our tracking
estimate in terms of growth on the back
of the strength of the data in the past
couple of weeks. When Jay Powell though
gets up and briefs the press at the next
Fed meeting, if we don't get these
economic reports, this is someone who
continuously likes to say we're data
dependent. What's he going to say? Well,
he's not going to be able to say that
they had any data to make this decision.
I mean that's the first thing of course.
But I I I think there was a bit of a
tone shift in in Powell at the last
press conference.
You know, data dependence is is a is a
sort of a buzz phrase that is always get
gets used. But this was actually the
biggest break from data dependence
perhaps in in many years that we've seen
from the Fed in that they basically came
out and said yeah, the labor market data
is has has lost momentum, but generally
speaking we feel good enough about the
data over the past 3 months that we're
upgrading our forecast and yet despite
that data
we're going to be cutting more. Is that
Myron effect?
Really doesn't seem like it was. I mean
Steve Myron had been on the Fed for
about 1 hour at the at the time that the
meeting started. So
it it does seem as though perhaps the
other doves Waller and Bowman being
chief among them who did not dissent
may have
in what is very typical for the Fed
especially prior to a few months ago
said, "Okay, we'll get on board with
this
with with this vote with this decision
in exchange for a bit of a dovish
pivot." And that's there's nothing
nefarious about that. That's how
actually the Fed has much more typically
operated. Try to get a consensus. Myron
wasn't there yet, so he wasn't able to
to participate in those sort of
pre-meeting discussions. But
it does seem as though they may have had
some effect on that.
>> And this is what markets are loving, the
fact that you've got GDP tracked at
three and you've got a Federal Reserve
promising more rate cuts, not less. This
is the reason why everybody's bullish.
This is the reason why the M&A pipeline
is getting absolutely spewed all over
Wall Street. That's the reason why you
can palate you can stomach debt to
finance some of these AI hopes and
dreams. I mean really this is the new
territory that we've been breaching over
the past couple of months, which is it
all had been done by cash. Now it's
being done on leverage because guess
what? They can. And if there is the
demand for it, people will create the
paper for them and that is definitely
what's happening.
>> David, just finally is this on that
dashboard what's happening in financial
markets? There's no doubt that
>> Does it matter? There's no doubt that
they see it. It certainly is
hawkish compared to the stock market
falling off a cliff.
But again it seems like it's it's not
winning the day with them and despite
the the strong economic data maybe
ex-NFP
and despite what appears to be easing
financial conditions in a steadily
increasing equity market, they are
they're going to cut two more times this
year and we think once more while Powell
is still chair of the Fed. David, it's
good to see you. We'll talk about a
post-Powell world next time you're back.
David Sants of Nomura.
>> thank you sir. Appreciate it. Let's get
you an update on news worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. It's Vanya Quinn.
Hey Vanya. Hey John, thank you.
CoreWeave rising on news of a $14
billion deal to supply computing power
to Meta. The deal helping diversify
CoreWeave's business away from Microsoft
which has historically been its largest
customer. CoreWeave will provide Meta
access to Nvidia's latest GB300 systems
as part of the agreement.
President Trump ordered 10% tariffs on
imports of softwood timber and lumber.
Also a 25% duty on kitchen cabinets,
vanities, and upholstered furniture.
The tariffs, most of them are set to
apply from October 14th. Some increases
targeted to take effect next year. Trump
said the planned actions aim to shore up
domestic manufacturing.
Exxon is planning to cut about 2,000
jobs globally as part of its long-term
restructuring plan. The reductions
account for 3 to 4% of its workforce or
thereabouts. Other major oil companies
include BP, Chevron, they've also
recently announced cuts as crude prices
fell this year.
And that is your Bloomberg brief. John.
Vanya, thank you. Appreciate it. Thank
you very much. Up next on the program,
Mark Haefele of UBS Global Wealth
Management Plus. We'll get those morning
movers with your higher CoreWeave.
Shares are surging on the back of that
Meta deal. That stock is up by 8%.
[Music]
The biggest sort of concern in the
market is are we in some sort of a
bubble? The problem is that the
comparisons are to the dot-com era. It's
not the right comparison. The theme is
real and in the in the near term, right?
18 months, we're in good shape. But does
not mean that you don't pay attention to
what can go wrong because a lot can go
wrong. I would say that power wall is
probably the biggest constraint.
Dina Kostin of Barclays said just
absolutely fantastic a little bit
earlier this morning on the constraints
around AI.
Let's talk about the societal blowback,
the pushback you could see, the
political tension in the next 12 months.
Electricity bills in this country in
certain pockets of this country
absolutely surging. They're hitting
records in parts of Texas. Obviously
Texas is big energy when it comes to
wind electricity, oil, gas. This is
where people want to build, these
companies want to build some of these
data centers. You have some individuals
who are predicting that the energy
demand is going to be the biggest since
the United States started using air
conditioners in 1960s.
So this is going to have a ton of
political blowback because people are
just seeing higher electricity prices
and for what? Are there even more jobs
being offered because of AI? So where's
the win-win here? The open about about
42 minutes away. This is a main focus
going into the open with one name in
particular getting our attention.
Futures just about unchanged with your
morning movers. Here's your higher how
you higher? Hi John, we start with that
one name and it is CoreWeave jumping 8%
after the cloud computing company signed
a deal to supply Meta with up to $14.2
billion in AI computing power. The CEO
saying that Meta loved their
infrastructure so much that it is coming
back for more and as Vanya mentioned
earlier this helps CoreWeave diversify
away from its largest customer
Microsoft. The stock has had quite the
run
since it IPO'd back in March more than
tripling in value since then. Meanwhile,
we move on to Firefly Aerospace. Those
shares are moving to the downside down
11 and a half percent after the company
said that one of its rockets that was a
meant to launch in the coming weeks was
destroyed yesterday during a test. This
is the latest mishap for the company
which had another incident back in April
and Firefly only went public back in
August. So it is still trying to prove
that it can keep up in the
ultra-competitive commercial launch
market. And we end with shares of
Celsius. They are rising 4.4% after
Morgan Stanley upgraded the stock to
overweight citing stronger than expected
top-line growth due to higher prices in
the overall energy drink market and
higher demand and investors have taken
notice with the stock up more than 100%
so far this year. What
what a move. Yeah, I know. Thank you.
Thanks to Amaria as well, I guess. Once
in a while.
>> for that move. Once in a while.
>> Okay. All right. Let's turn back to you
today's big story. Investors bracing for
a potential government shutdown to begin
at midnight. Mark Haefele, the chief
investment officer at UBS Global Wealth
Management writing the following, "With
the direct impact of a government
shutdown on financial markets likely to
be muted, we maintain a positive outlook
for US equities." Mark joins us now for
more. Mark, welcome back. It's been too
long my friend. Let's talk about what's
anchoring that view. What's making you
bullish right now?
Well, I think we've had continued strong
earnings. We've seen this continued
investment on the AI side. And then we
have the Fed cutting rates. So those are
positive backdrops. Would also add in
there
you know, the strong
fiscal spend that continues and that's
been supporting the economic picture as
well. Mark, I know that these are real
numbers, real revenue, real profits.
There's been some concerns recently
about circular finance, financial
engineering. Do you see any pockets of
speculative behavior that concern you
and the team?
Absolutely that there is, you know, and
there has been for several years
speculation in in various parts of the
market, I think focus on quality is
something that we have maintained and
will continue to maintain a focus on
cash flows.
There are plenty of stocks that it does
seem like, you know, you could put dot
com in your name and your stock would go
up. Now you put AI in your name and your
stock would go up. That kind of thing
is a worrisome sign to a degree and
that's why you really do have to start
digging in on particularly, I think on
the cash flow side. Mark, until now a
lot of the money that's gone into tech
investment has been cash flow, free cash
flow. Now we're starting to see more
leverage get introduced to a more of
these deals. I'm thinking of the
Coreweave Coreweave deal right now that
we announced this morning with Meta.
Coreweave is a below investment grade
rated company that relies heavily on the
debt market and this comes along with a
slew of LPOs and other deal activity.
Does that raise concerns about the debt
side of the financing structure heading
into a really uncertain economic time?
Well, I think it's a I think it's a good
point. As you noted, I think rightly,
we're starting to see
uh really just kind of the beginnings
maybe of some of the more excitement on
the institutional side about IPOs and
other things. So, you know, I think some
of this financing is absolutely
something to watch, but we still believe
uh you know, some of it in the around
the core around some of the core of the
hyperscalers, that's still very early.
But there's no question that there are
pockets of leverage as well building up
in the system. I think, you know, the
way the way we look at it overall
with
uh the AI
project, it's something that we think is
one of the longer term themes that we
want to stay invested in because we do
see the productivity growth. We we hear
it from our clients who are customers,
that's something they're investing in.
We still like the power and resources
story associated with that. We still
like the health care story. These are
areas, you know, they're big problems
for governments uh and then and where
there's big problems, there's big money
going in. We've seen the president of
the United States say we're going to win
it, we must win on AI. These are
existential
uh
ultimately defense issues both for
companies and for for nations. And so, I
think that gives it something of a
little bit of a different quality and
those are the kind of longer term trends
we want to be behind even if that there
is certainly the potential for some
choppy trading into the end of the year.
Mark, if you do have all of this
investment, the IPOs, the deals
activity, can you get a real
acceleration in growth heading into the
fourth quarter without a re-acceleration
in inflation?
Uh look, we think there might be some
acceleration of inflation.
It's I think it's something about how
much the Fed and other central banks
would be willing to look through that.
But also keep in mind uh for some of if
you take just the tech sector, that
inflation
uh is not necessarily
an issue for them because if you take
the hyperscalers, they're not that
reliant on debt financing, right? So,
uh
there again, I think it could be a time
to get a little more selective about who
can who can continue to benefit given
given the very large changes we've had
in the way the economy has been moving
forward this year. Mark, I've got to
squeeze this in. Got about 45 seconds.
You're at UBS, I've got to ask you about
gold. The move we've seen this year,
this month, can you walk us through how
investors are taking exposure to the
precious metal, whether it's physical,
paper, and if it is physical, whether
they're choosing to store it closer to
home?
All of the above, Jonathan. You should
come visit the vault someday.
Uh
long long equities and long gold has
worked very well for us and we think
that will continue to work.
I'll come to the vault whenever you
invite me, Mark. We'll make it happen.
It's good to see you. Mark Haefele of
UBS Global Wealth Management. Long gold,
long equities. It's been a big trade,
hasn't it? I just wonder if in the gold
room they have special lights that shine
on them to kind of be dazzling so you
walk into the room and just have that
moment. But yes, this has been the trade
that keeps on giving at the same time as
equity which which is an ironic and
unusual combination when usually gold
does better in bad economic times, not
ones of prosperity.
>> What a time. It's our second invite to a
vault, I think in the last few months.
We could do a show at it. Secondly,
Bessant said come down to Fort Knox.
>> Sort of, not really us. He said
senators. I don't think he I don't think
he wants us, you know, lurking around
Fort Knox.
Quite package they wouldn't it? Special
programming, Bloomberg Originals at Fort
Knox.
>> dying to go.
Watch that. Coming up on the program,
George Polak of Signum Global, Adrian
Yie of Barclays, Michelle Weaver of
Morgan Stanley, and Vivek Arya of Bank
of America. We'll see them tomorrow
morning. From New York City, good
morning. Thank you for choosing
Bloomberg TV. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[Music]